English, and I hope I can still teach you a little bit of English basic stuff that you
didn't know. Just about myself, I've been teaching for some years at the tourism of
Manhattan, FOT, and I've also been doing technical stuff for engineers, so that's electrics
and industry mechanics and stuff, so this is why I have a basic understanding, but only
a basic understanding of your topic. I studied as an interpreter many, many years ago, and
also taught economics, so that's why I also know a little about the second part of it.
So, first thing maybe I just wanted to say, I'll try to find, oh, let's just see how this works out.
I know in my, the schedule that we all have, that four classes of English on a Friday is quite strong.
But maybe it's better than four classes of physics, or I don't know what else you guys could add.
The point is that, as I said, I joined quite late, so, yeah, they had already arranged the schedule, and that was the only possibility at the moment.
I have left Mr. Winson here for your timetable. As far as I understand, it's Monday, at least Monday and Wednesday, you have class until 2.30, right?
I didn't
totally understand the Tuesday
is there no class at all on Tuesday
or
so you have no class at all
that's very nice
but
the point is that the
people who are doing English we would call that a sandwich
course
these people are
at
it's called those baseball schools
on that day right
so we cannot schedule anything on that day
then we'll have to decide
maybe, I don't know, would it help
in any way that we go
at 3.30
or on another afternoon
is that better?
it's also quite
I don't know, I cannot say
It's quite strong to me that I said, OK, four hours
or four consistent lessons, one after the other, on a Friday
until the afternoon.
We'll have to see, and maybe we can just see how it works out
and then maybe change it around somehow.
I would say maybe that's the possibility.
How do you want to do it with the break in between?
Because we're now going from 12 to 13.30 or 1.30,
and then we'd go on for two o'clock, right?
Do you want to skip the break and just go through,
or shorten the break, or play it by ear?
Play it by ear.
You don't have to talk today.
You don't want to say anything.
That's okay with me.
Okay, now we'll just say we will try to play it by ear.
I thought the thing that would make sense to me, because you guys are, how do you call this, economic engineers, whatever,
so you're kind of like connecting economics and engineering.
So the course is, and that's what I also do for classes in one semester, is business English, that's what it says here, as well as technical English.
So I would want to go do one double lesson for business English and then one double lesson for technical English, that kind of lesson, I think would make sense.
What we're doing here is preparing you for the job in the end, so I'll give you a little insight into what you have to know once you start working.
So I think as the business English side is concerned, I wanted to look a little into stuff you also do in your economics lectures.
That is basics of economics, I know different economic systems that we have, how economics works.
So all this, what it has to do with economics, a little into finance, how does finance work, all that kind of stuff.
Just the very, very basics of everything. So you have a certain understanding, I don't know what to...
If you come to a company, you have to understand how the economy works, what supply and demand is, how manufacturing works in general, how a company can finance, and all that kind of stuff.
That's what I wanted to look at a little, and also give you the English terminology for that.
And then on the other hand, I think maybe a little more
that we would do on the technical side.
So technical side is for, yeah, anything
that has to do with machines, technical engineering.
We would look into what started today,
looking a little just terminology-wise,
for example, how you call certain tools in English.
That's very basics of all the story has there.
And then looking into machine tools,
looking into a little manufacturing processes,
different types of processes.
Also, when you talk about things in natural science,
like math, physics, and chemistry a little,
just a little bit, we're not going into detail here.
So you can talk to other people describing
geometrical forms and stuff like that.
Then I wanted to go, as I said,
manufacturing processes go a little
into different manufacturing processes.
So you have an understanding of what forming is,
what milling is, for example,
or what die casting is, that kind of stuff.
So anything that has to do, especially with metal,
because that's the field,
well, that's the field you're looking into.
Gear cutting, for example, that stuff,
bearings, all that kind of stuff.
So all these, you know, machine parts, for example,
which you can talk about that you know what they're called,
you don't call them bearings for example but bearings that's a thing that a lot of people get
along with um we might have um i'll try to to to arrange that and i also teach a course at a
company here um for the apprentices there and um i'd like to talk to mr wince about that and maybe
we can get to the point that i'd like to have my apprentices to give you a tour of the company
probably after christmas so that would just be i think you've got thursday in the morning
you have some time so we can maybe do that as you come over to the sleeper in kenton
they can just show you around a little so you have a little you know look into
how a real company works for what they do there they make machines to cut gears so we would also
look a little into the topic different kinds of fears and how here's a mate i don't know if you
have to normally people don't have any knowledge of let's say hobbing or shaping or describing
technologies if you do a little better um that's what i wanted to do um apart from that in the
classes or before I come to that I wanted to say we certainly have to do or we will do an exam
at the end sometime in mid to end January or beginning of February
that will certainly be about the things we do in the class so I suppose if you just more or
less come to the classes and you understand what's going on here that's what you will have
in the exam. I will also do a little
language basics that is a little grammar but not too much
we don't have to go into all the difficult things
or whatever in grammar because in the end that doesn't matter very much
people usually understand you if your grammar is
good and ok and it doesn't have to be super
the point is also in the future you will use english you can count on that
but you will use English most of the time talking to, I don't know, Italians or Japanese or Brazilians or whatever.
You use that much, much more than if you use English to talk to native speakers.
So who cares about grammar all that much?
I just want to have like a kind of basic understanding of it.
Apart from what I'm doing right now, I try to involve you in the class as much as possible, so it doesn't make any sense that I speak.
I don't get money for speaking, but I prefer you guys to speak, so I usually try to give you some exercises so you can speak with each other.
But certainly the most important thing here, you all should at least have, and I suppose you have, a quite good level of English, because you all have your Abitur, I suppose.
If not, they will find out some time, and so get it some time.
So, as I said, you will have at least a decent level, so we don't have to work on the basics.
An important thing certainly is, as far as I know, we only have this English in the first semester, that's it, right?
Okay, so we should look at terminology as much as possible.
Even though you might say, okay, you can use artificial intelligence in the future, that's right,
but you can't use it in the sense that you show, I don't know, your customers around in your company,
or you're selling a machine and then you want to talk to the customer,
you're not using artificial intelligence in that second so you have to be able to communicate to
the customer you have to be able to talk about what your machine makes and how you make it and
all that kind of stuff um so that's something when you saw okay enough talking on my side
maybe i would um even though i'm a little afraid that you've done this very very often
but I would still like to get to know you a little
so if you give me the possibility
if you allow me to talk to everybody a little
just for today
that would be very very nice
so I can have a short understanding of you
I suppose you had all kinds of classes
where you got to know each other
and get to know your meetings
so you're kind of sick of
all kinds of games that have to do with them.
But a little understanding of that would be very nice for me.
As you see, as just in most classes today, most people
have it on an iPad or whatever. You might have
discovered, no you probably haven't discovered, why should you have?
I put something in Moodle, so that's where I put the stuff. I can show you afterwards where that is.
I'm not, because I'm usually
as i said i teach one day a week over in tourism um so this is the first time i've ever been in
this building actually um so i have no possibility right now to do any coffee so if you need copies
um i would ask you to do it yourself before the class if that is absolutely impossible
let me know then i can maybe do copy somewhere else might be in another school or something like
that but hopefully today that's kind of possible and for those who haven't got whatever tablet yet
that's probably a good investment to do that because it comes in very handy
during those studies and for christmas okay everybody has something
So, I will probably not be able to get your names too soon because I think I once had a look at, in total I have 150 students or whatever per week.
And most of them are new at least every two years, so it's kind of like a little difficult for me to get my head around that.
So, excuse me if I just say, would you please have a go and don't know the names for some time. I'll try to work on that as much as I can.
Would you like to start, just tell me about the app?
My name is Tim, and I'm from Wigginsburg, it's a small town near Kempner.
So you didn't have port to travel?
No.
You didn't want to leave the region?
No, I didn't want to.
And what brings you here? Did you do any work before?
No, after high school I took a short break and then I decided I wanted to do business administration.
And then I had a whole school in town on the day of the university.
The university, the open day at the uni, something like that.
I went there and then I decided to study this.
So you're splitting in between the two things.
Good.
Who's next to you?
I'm Maxi and I'm from the Lake Constance.
It's also not that far so that's why I came to Kent.
It's not very far and I always wanted to study something with engineering.
and why not like the full full-time engineering um because uh the economic fund is much easier
okay what's the difference between you guys and the full-time engineers um like the depth of the
topics
So you're also going over to vocational school tomorrow?
Sorry, Tuesday?
Tuesday.
With the EPT, EMDR.
It's an automotive part manufacturer.
Okay, so you have started an apprenticeship some time ago?
Yes, I started an apprenticeship one year before I started studying at the university.
I'm a full-time student, besides school.
Okay, and whenever we are on holiday here, you have to go back to your company, right?
Yes.
And you, what are you, an industrial mechanic?
Yes, I'm not an industrial mechanic.
I'm from Sandhofen, and I made my Abitur there,
and since then I studied mechanical engineering here, two semesters.
that has switched to this topic.
Okay, so can you confirm what Maxine has said,
that the economic parts is simpler?
Yeah, the economic parts is definitely simpler.
I mean, we can't even imagine.
So, sorry, could you go on?
I'm Zhou Xirui, I come from China,
and in the university in China,
In China, we have a program, so I have about two years in China in the university study
and I come here, and I think Kent is very beautiful, and because of the program, so
I need to study here for degree about three years.
Are you doing the full study over here?
Yeah, about two years.
Okay, wow.
And how long have you been here now?
When did you come to Canton?
Because...
No, when, when?
About last month.
Last month?
Yeah, last month.
So you've only been here for a month then?
Yeah.
Okay, very nice.
Where about are you from, China?
East, west, north, south?
Is there any town that we might know, that we might have heard of, like Beijing or Shanghai?
I come from Fujian, a province, Fujian. It's in the south of China.
I'm Victor. I live here since two years. I'm originally from Lebanon.
okay and I came here to study yeah exactly I did German course for one year
six months and then I started yeah exactly yeah yeah my name is Alvin I 20
years old I live in a country about 40 minutes from here and yeah I did my
levels three years ago with a short break and now i'm here
i'm i come from schwanger which is near the castle of schwanstein last year i did my
and then I immediately started to do a practice again.
Okay.
So you did your, whatever you want to call it.
So we heard a couple of things, like A-levels is what the British would call it.
In the U.S. you graduate from high school and we have an aventur,
I would probably say you graduated from school last year.
So did you do anything in between?
no i um some of my friends traveled a lot um but i didn't want to do it because
well they went to australia so you took some time away yeah and i didn't want to travel
i don't know is it it sounds like that like the majority of the people here students are
from the region okay so it's not a very international
i'm flo i'm living near manningham and i did my abitur and then immediately started studying here
and now i'm also sandwich studying and i work at dmv morgan in the holidays and
And I'm working in the holidays and two times a week on Thursday and Wednesday, yeah.
So you have to go to the company you work in?
Yeah.
Okay, wow.
And what's your, what are you doing the apprenticeship at?
Was it an industrial mechanic or a tool maker?
I don't know if the word is correct, but in the department I work at, it's called Central Processes.
And it's a mixture of persons who work there. Some do some economical stuff, some are doing some process improvement.
There are a lot of people with different specific focuses.
You said you're doing an exam course, so you're also doing an apprenticeship at the same time?
No, I'm just studying and working at the same time.
Oh, okay.
I'm doing a student.
So in your case it's a little bit different. Think of it in the back.
I am Simon, I come directly from Camping here.
I also do a kind of sandwich sewing, but without apprenticeship, so I as well as blow.
So similar in the... I didn't know that existed.
Yeah, there are several types of sandwich sewing.
So every company has their own style.
Okay, so you guys don't go to vocational school, do you?
No, only on vacation we go.
So on Tuesdays you go to your company to work there?
No, I don't know.
You don't have to.
Good, thank you.
My name is Alex. I came from Klemmerhauser Park in Austria.
And I made my Abitur three years ago in Southampton and came here to university because it's like new year's ready for me.
Okay, good, thank you.
My name is Marcel, I'm 19 years old and I'm from Bethigal, a small village next to Kenton.
And I like this topic because I like the combination of economic parts and engineering parts.
and they also made my A-Level last year.
I'm Niklas, I'm living 40 minutes away in a small village
and I do the same thing as Leo in the same company.
Okay, but you're also doing an apprenticeship then?
Yes.
Also as an industrial mechanic?
the same. I'm Kilian, I'm from Haldenach, like 20 minutes from here. And I also do this
sandwich study like them with Multivac from Wolfer Schellen. So in the breaks I'm at the
company events. But you're not doing an apprenticeship? No. But you receive training at the company?
Yeah, on the holidays, we're in the company and we work for them.
You also give money there?
Yeah.
I suppose nobody does that.
Why should you do it for free?
Okay, very good, thank you.
I'm Sebastian, I'm 21 years old and I'm from Sauerlapp, from the south of Munich.
And I came to Kenton because I don't really like Munich, because it's too big for me.
So yeah, that's basically it.
Did you, for example, did you make a decision to say what you'd come up to?
They call it neuro-brazilian applied sciences, does that make any difference for anyone here?
Is it different from like you go to TI or TU in Minsk?
Well from the TU I think it makes a difference because here it's much more practical because we have the practice semester
and I don't think you have that at the TU but anything else than that I wouldn't really know.
Do you guys also do like during the semester at the beginning do you also do practical stuff
i don't know work on a milling machine or later on is there something i think they have some
machines over there right well we did actually in the second semester a very tough technique
yeah but it was three times only three times three times in the semester okay so can you do
some work on the machine there or can you cut something yeah we did something but the professors
did it actually like we didn't really we just learned it just saw everything
because i mean you they were right you you do you know lots of filing at the beginning
okay so do you know what you're talking about
okay so the first half here is finally right yes
Yes, every month there is only filing around 3 million years of steel on a cube.
It's a little bit boring, but you have to do it to get an appeal for the material.
And yes, that's part of it.
My name is Emma, I live in Hampton and there was also a reason why I came to school.
When I arrived at this course I stumbled upon it on accident actually and it kind of sparked an interest in me.
And would you say more like on the technical side or on the economic side?
I have some background in economics because I did an apprenticeship at a bank.
And then it was always a time of silence, and then I thought, why not just try it out?
In order to come here, did you have to go back to school?
I had a break, then I went to the other teacher.
So you had the school education before that.
and then we went back home and called Jezebel.
But I didn't want to do that.
It doesn't ring a bell?
It doesn't ring a bell.
She is the last person.
The last person?
Yeah.
Oh.
Yeah.
So you were into drawing a lot.
Yeah.
I thought you were sick of drawing.
No, I didn't.
Okay.
You didn't know all of them.
Oh, I can't say.
But what's your hero thinking?
Do they have technical courses in English?
Or do they have a different person?
They do.
But I wanted to go pick a way.
Mm-hmm.
But I wanted to go take away some homes and do some things on my own and stuff like that.
I wanted to go to a big city.
Stuff that was perfect and healthy to be able to go there as well.
It's close to nature here.
But English looks nice for students because there's...
I've only been there about twice or something.
vibrant like this a lot of a lot of students like more than they can say
what did you do before directly in school
My name is Keir, I'm from Omsk, and I live in St. Petersburg, also in Montenegro.
Okay, so did you guys know each other?
Yes.
Do you work at Montenegro before you come here, or does that start simultaneously?
It starts simultaneously.
Okay.
At the same time, we've got students.
Okay, and what's the advantage? You get money, and you get some practical insights, close, right?
So you're kind of like somebody who does an apprenticeship and studies at the same time, but you're done when you're, so you probably, do you have to do the practical semester at multi-buck then?
And that's after the fifth semester or whatever it is, is it?
My name is Luz, I'm 23 years old, and I'm in the same campus.
At first I start my advantages and then I go to the boss and then make my A-level and now I'm sitting right here.
Thanks for watching.
Yes.
Or...
Or not.
Or let's see.
Okay, we're good.
Yeah, I thought at the beginning I would annoy you with a little glam then.
I put the sheet there, which is called the Ragnarok Castle.
First, I have to tell you how many times I said that, right?
Let me see.
So there is a course which should not be not for English, which is called Technical and Business English.
Thank you.
can you tell us your password
because we only can access
the password
actually there should be a password
Thank you.
Can you at least see it?
Yes.
You can see it.
But you cannot access it
because you don't have the password, right?
Yes.
Oh, that's great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I don't know.
How was it?
I didn't get that.
How old are you?
How old are you?
How old are you?
What's your name?
Josie, right?
Can you type it in?
Oh, no, we can't just type it in.
Last name should be...
Great, thanks.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Let's go.
Okay, so that starts out really easy.
I would say we just do the first two pages, and then we'll move on to the next.
Just to somehow check.
As I said, it starts quite low level.
So just do it for yourself right now.
Okay, so just have a look at the grammar exercise here.
We're only doing the first two pages.
We can do the rest next time.
Feel it in yourself.
All right.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The second page.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Okay.
First two pages.
So I think the first one is simple.
Is she 25 years old?
You have to say
I think so.
That is true.
Then I'm afraid we don't have
two possibilities for
an unclear number
or the number doesn't matter, you can use some and any,
which will be unique.
Use any, because whenever something is negative,
you cannot say some.
So that has to be any here.
So any unclear number, use any.
If it's negative, use some, because it's positive.
You can take the bus or the train.
I mean, it's cheaper to take the bus, but the train is more comfortable.
Absolutely right.
That's basic stuff.
So if you compare things, then if the word has only one syllable,
You can say cheap, cheaper, the cheapest.
But if you have longer words, if you don't say, like,
comfortabler or whatever because it just sounds stupid,
it would make it more comfortable.
And then the superlative is the most comfortable.
you might remember that from school
then I think that Boston is
quite a then
again, quite, quieter
the quietest, and importantly if you compare it
then it's then with an A, not with an E
when did you arrive in this country
in March
I have been here
for about 7 weeks
exactly
that's the so called present perfect
and we use the present perfect
if this was the present
this is now
and we're talking about
something that has been going on
in the past
until now
So that's the use of the present verb. So we don't say I am here for about seven weeks, but I have been here. The second thing that is important is do you use for or do you use since?
Four is a period of time, so that's the length of time.
I have been here for about seven weeks.
Since means the beginning or the start.
So I have been here since the first of October.
That was the difference there.
Do you remember the job?
Who is who?
Right, but we can't say who, who is only for people.
I don't know.
Then, adverbs, if we go through them, could we learn?
I've got E, thumbsticks in the shoe.
Right, so A, we need an adverb, that's the L-Y thing.
Because how does he speak English?
It refers to the way Tom speaks.
It doesn't refer to his English.
The fluent means how is his English.
Adverbs mean verbs, adjectives, or adverbs if you describe them in closer.
Remember that?
Right.
And then the second question is where do we put the adverb?
And we put the adverb usually behind the verb inimities, and we like to put it towards the end of it.
And except for adverbs that describe a frequency, I often go home another.
That's the one thing that is different.
And the next one is also, it's about adverbs.
Do you want to go on?
C.
C. Tom, normally Tom is a very good joiner.
Right, so this good refers to what kind of driver he is.
But yesterday when I went in town with him, he didn't drive very carefully.
It refers to the driving.
But he drove fast.
There is no adverb called fast.
There is no adverb and adjective of the same.
It's fast, and now this terribly refers to how fast he was driving everywhere.
Perfect.
You could be, I have seen, I have been here for an hour, where I have been, that makes a lot of sense, that's again present perfect, like in the last hour, if you think of that, I have been here, I don't know where you have been, is it perfect?
Okay, then we've got, maybe let's bridge the gap.
I used to walk everywhere before I got a car.
That's what we say.
I used to, what I did in the past, I had it of the past.
That's used to do something.
Had it of the past.
It is C or D.
I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
Used to use that C, right?
Prior to that.
Um...
What?
How do you know
how to read these things and stuff?
Right, and just never ever again
use the present perfect
as...
Uh,
it shouldn't have to be those
that are still available.
Exactly. Now we're going a little more into
of grammar, something that she, I have been doing
and I'm still at the action,
then you use the present perfect progressive form.
That doesn't matter so much.
I mean, if you say, it's not 100% correct
if you say she has title because then she will end it,
kind of like, but use present perfect.
Second page, moving back.
She followed and she had left.
Right. This is called the past perfect. It must have happened before we go to the theater.
Otherwise, it doesn't make sense. She found that she had forgotten tickets in the hall.
A, may you give me some small change for the phone, please?
No, I'm going to say that.
C is better, yeah.
C, would you give me a very cautious question?
Would you give me a question?
I mean, you can say something like, may I ask you,
but that goes first to myself, then to you.
B, a lot of milk.
Right. I think that's a very general one.
You could say there is much middle blood.
So the point is if you can't count it, you don't use many.
But you usually don't say that in a positive sentence.
You could use it. It would be super wrong.
But I would say there's a lot of middle blood.
I chose A.
Well, you mustn't smoke for a few weeks, but you don't have to go to bed, exactly.
The thing here is what's meant by must not.
Do you know what this must not means?
Like, should not do it.
You're not allowed to. That's the meaning of must not.
and so this makes sense
he gave them
a new room
didn't he
didn't he
I think that's too simple
right
do you think
it will snow
next week
I hope not
I hope not
I don't hope so
that's also possible
or what we have, or I hope not.
Then would you mind showing me?
Would you mind showing me?
Okay, on the one hand side, it's this
gorgeous question, do you mind doing something?
The second thing is, mind is one of the words that means,
This is actually a quote of Jeremy's, I don't know if you remember, it doesn't matter what you call it, that needs an in verb behind it.
Mind doing something. There are a couple of verbs that mean that, some others don't.
But you say, I learned to drive, but I don't mind driving.
That's the one thing that is different.
Some words, it depends.
What do you say? Do you say I stop to smoke or I stop to smoke any?
I stopped to smoke is
I stopped driving, walking or whatever
in order to smoke
that's in order to smoke
but you can also say I stopped smoking
you stopped this activity
so you no longer smoke
so this
this rule that some words have the
two
words and some words have this
Sometimes you can use both, but they have a different meaning.
They have been specialized in.
Say it again.
They have been specialized.
They have been specialized?
Yes.
Oh, so they specialize in .
They always do that.
I met Tom yesterday. He told me that he was really lucky the day before.
That's B. He said B, right?
He told me that this is the so-called indirect speech.
he talked about the day before
so you don't use
he was really lucky
but
he had been
yesterday
yesterday I was really lucky
he said yesterday he had been very lucky
it's called time shift
so you always go a step
He had been really lucky. He had gone to play bingo and had 100 pounds. He said he really needed the money for a new car. So in direct speeches he says, yesterday I was really lucky. I went to play bingo and I won 100 pounds. I really need the money.
But he would rather spend it on work, so I would say A.
Police officers
are paid.
Right, are paid. That's the passive.
They are paid by the government.
Who was that? An old friend?
if you use a person
you don't always hear that people talking
but the correct form is
if you now have a point
he's a friend
or he's Patrick's friend
how would you put it then
he's an old friend of
and the correct form now is
of Patrick's
so it's
maybe strange but that's
the correct form
that's why you also use of mine
in 48
is
I think that's also clearly more
comfortable than we said it before
more than a syllable in the word, except for if it has two syllables, and it is, for example, happy,
that's the only explanation, ends in a Y, then happy becomes happier.
the letters at this moment
the army type that's the progressive forward capacity is happening right now
and then the government spent a million euros on this program
The millionaires had been spent.
Well, here you have the normal cost.
That's the cost, and now you've changed it to being cost-perfect.
I would put it here, the millionaires were spent on this trade.
So, see.
so much to read
we don't have to
we can do the next two pages next time
it gets a little more
or a little harder
let's hear it
okay
Okay, let's have a short look at the technical side here, and there should be, and there
is a file which is called hand tools
you should have something like this there
so i just wanted to lay down a little how we call
some stuff there in english
So if we have a look at this together, let's look at it from the internet, from the page, from the website, and if you go there, one-stop solution, whether for professional work or enthusiastic DIY, you have the right tool for your project.
Let's just look at a couple of things.
What's an enthusiastic DIY?
Does anybody know that?
What is DIY?
Yeah?
Do it yourself.
Right, that's do it yourself.
So these are the people who work at home, right?
And if you want to get tools and you go over there to the...
That's a DI in my store.
That's where you find this stuff.
Good.
Then we've got some stuff here.
Wrenches.
Okay, hammer, I suppose, is clear.
A wrench and pliers.
What's the wrench?
You have that here.
You've got the picture down here.
So these are the wrenches.
They're open and ring wrenches, we don't need to distinguish that, so this is a wrench.
In British English you could also, you would also, speak of a spanner.
A spanner or a wrench?
What do you do with a wrench?
You don't throw it at somebody?
What it goes into?
the wrench here, what's that called?
Screw, right, so this would be a
and
most of the time, right, you said it's a screw, most of the time
it would probably be bolts, and
we'll come to that in a second, so screws or bolts, and then
okay, so with wrenches, what are pliers?
Then we have a term here, insulation, I suppose it's clear, just to mention one thing, in
In English we speak of insulation and there are two words, there is isolation and there is insulation.
Isolation is for example you are alone, like there is nobody coming to you.
insulation is there's nothing coming out
that's the difference
a cable, a wire, electric wire is insulated
because you don't want the electricity to come out when you touch it
whereas isolation, you keep somebody in isolation
you don't want anything to come in from the outside
so isolation is you protect from the outside
insulation
something is coming out
that's the difference
right
that's something for every application
the same goes for quality and reliability
each
of our hand tools is manufactured
with high quality materials
developed and produced with great
care
what is the
The usual material, we talked about torches and pliers or hammers.
What are these things made of?
We call that tuned steel.
What is steel made of?
What is steel?
steel contains
so steel is
two things are always in steel
and then you can add
many many others
it always contains
iron
and
carbon dioxide
Carbon, without the dioxide.
Carbon.
That's C in the chemical table.
Tool steel very often contains another metal that makes it harder,
because only iron and carbon, the steel, isn't very hard.
And very often that's something like vanadium, for example.
That's another metal.
If steels contain at least two metals, what do we call them?
What do we call a mix of metals?
Any idea?
Coach, I need you.
Have I read that?
I didn't know what that is.
Do you speak Cantonese?
What's your native language?
You said you're from the south of China, right?
Yeah. Do you speak Cantonese there?
We speak Chinese. There's Mandarin and
there's Cantonese, right?
There are two different
types of Chinese, right? Yeah. So which one is yours?
No, I think the difference between the two Chinese
is the writing.
Yeah.
Good.
Good.
Then let's go on just a little bit.
So we have more stuff.
Let's go here.
Always up to date, we're going to develop a product portfolio.
What does that mean?
Also have a down here.
What is a product portfolio?
Right, so that's all the stuff you have,
and so product portfolio
we have that turned on there,
is the same as we have it here.
so that's all the goods you have as a company in your what you're selling
and the last thing i just wanted to mention here
Then they speak about promotion.
All that kind of terminology has come into German a lot.
We have to try to promotion.
What's a promotion in this sense here?
So you pay less in the end.
You say they have this.
Bless you.
There would be a discount, you would also say, that's a promotion.
So if you paid less for something, a lower price for something.
On the second page, you can get active a little.
You have a number of tools here.
I'll just help you a little.
You've got some things here that can help you for measurement,
grinding, hammers, chisels, and center punches.
Now, try to connect the numbers with the tools that you see here.
So, for example, if we start with a .
Let's start with a .
So work together as much as you can.
Don't look on the internet.
And try to find out as much as you can.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I don't know what to do.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Just a little more.
Good girl.
It's all right, dear.
It's all right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
So, I'm just gonna...
Slam it on.
Let's see if it works.
I don't know if it works.
Guys, I'll...
Thank you.
Thank you.
I know, because they usually do it for princesses, so they might know a little bit more about that.
Can we have a look at it together? Is it too difficult?
Or are you getting somehow there?
I don't, I didn't know how much, like,
for I acknowledge you now,
but let's have a look.
Oh, let's look at it together.
Maybe that's the difference.
I don't understand.
So, can
And number one, whatever you have, this, this is number one here.
And whenever, so we've got two ways of fastening things.
We can use a bolt.
This is a bolt.
And a bolt you want to have.
And, yeah.
And this is a screw.
The difference is, a screw makes its own, do you know how this is called?
Whatever it is, so the part that really makes the joint, that's called a thread.
Get it, step further.
So, if you screw something in, a bolt always needs, or usually needs, a second to fasten it.
A screw doesn't need that. A screw is always tipped. That's the difference in English.
So, usually when you look at a machine, you will have bolts and not screws.
Most machines have bolts. So, a bolt needs something to fasten it on the other side.
And that would be, maybe you know that, that would be this one here, and that's a nut.
This goes on the backside of a bolt.
To increase the power of the nut, you have this one here, and that's not a mother, but that's, as you see here, called a washer.
It just increases the load of the knot.
I'll do another exercise for next time.
I suppose I'm realizing this is too difficult at the very moment.
Let's just very shortly go through this.
So, anything you use for turning screws or bolts are either called keys, like this one here, this form here, you have this one there, it looks like this, for this you would use a so-called Allen key, that's just the first company in German, it's Inbus, that's the company that makes these.
So you would either speak of a key, or you could use a screwdriver, the ones we have here.
They come in different forms than the Google ones like Torx. It's the same in English and in German.
This has what? A slot. So this is a slotted screwdriver, and this one has this cross shape.
In English, we call them Phillips screwdrivers, because a company called Phillips was the ones who first used them.
That's why they're called Phillips screwdrivers.
The third possibility, what we can use for screws or bolts, would be a wrench.
and we have it down here as I said in British English you can also call that a spanner and the
last possibility is this one here which is a socket wrench and a socket is something like
this you might know a socket from the wall we plug something in a different meaning of the
same word here this is a socket so this is what you use together with a wrench you can put it on
there and then you can turn something and and the final thing that was mentioned here
is you don't want to turn too much on a screw or bolt because you can break it it has a certain
the strength here and if you turn too much you can break it for this you have on 27 you have a so-called
torque wrench torque what is torque you know that
exactly that's the power in the end the power of turning kind of like an inverted
So here you can determine the maximum power you want to use to turn this screw and then
it stops.
That's a tall branch.
That's called a tall branch.
Let's go a little further then.
A chisel, 32 is a chisel and 4 are chisels.
4 would be used for metal. You can take things off the metal and 32 would be used for wood.
That you can carve into wood.
Then we have the pliers. Anything that is here, like 31, the number 5, all that kind of stuff, this is always pliers in Sange.
Except for when you use pliers to cut, like in 15, then you speak of pincers.
file I suppose is clear
then we have different saws
a hex saw and a hand saw
down there
a hex saw is one you can cut metal with
and a hand saw is more for wood
and all that other kind of stuff
then some things to
to measure
number 9 is a height gauge
you can use this
it shows you here
the distance
and you can use this to mark
on metal for example
so you know where you want to cut later
that would be a height gauge
there we have
10 is the export
so hex yield is just because
from the top
if you look at it
from the top side
it will have six sides
so you can turn it with a wrench
right
that's the hex fold
then I suppose
to measure something that's clear
Number 11. A micrometer is to measure something. You can put it into here and here and then you can see how thick something is. The diameter of something. That's what the micrometer looks like.
Monkey wrench, we don't have to go into detail here, these are the ones that you can change, like this here, 13, you can change the distance in between here and you can use it like a wrench.
a nut is what you use here with a bolt
a ruler, this is made from steel so you can measure something when you cut
sandpaper is to smoothen the surface
Now we've got the scissors, I suppose that's kind of clear, that's what we have in an office or whatever.
A scribe is this one.
You use it if you want to mark off a piece of metal sheet, for example.
can't use a pen or whatever a pencil then you would use this to make a little mark so you
know where you're going if you're measuring or if you want to cut something the side cutter or
the wire cutter that's also a pin type this one here you cut something with it
Then we have the different screws. For example, we have a slotted screw that has just this one slot which you can use there. Then we have a socket. Socket is used with a wrench, with a socket wrench so you can turn bolts, for example.
So we have the socket wrench itself. A spirit level is here, number 24. You have this little bolt in here in the water to see if something is strained. That's the socket wrench.
Then we've got screwdrivers. A type of, let's say, very forceful scissors is called shears.
If you have metal sheet, work up metal sheet, that's what you would use there.
A caliper is this here, you can only see half of it, a little part of it was cut off.
It works like the micrometer, you can measure the distance in between and it's very very precise.
We've also got a vise, this one here, that's used to, you can open it here, if you turn that, and you can put your workpiece in between here, for example, if you want to file on your workpiece, that's a vise.
Then we have the washer, as I told you before, these little things that you put in between the knot and the material if you want to join something.
Water pump pliers are two here. They come in two different forms.
This one pliers, as I said, to hold something or to turn it.
As I said, they come in different forms.
the wood chisel
and finally the wrench
so that's what you use to turn things
now two exercises for you guys
number one, think about
what would you use for example
for cutting things
take a picture, take a color
and think about how you use
saws to cut something
right and this is meant to cut a side cutter or wire cutter printers are used for cutting and so
on and what do you use for gripping things for holding things so you would for example use a vice
to hold your workpiece or you would use a
the water pump plate is made to hold something and so on and to measure and to mark off you
would have here to measure you would use measuring tape or ruler to mark off you would go with
is right for also the center punch for example
and center punch you make a little dent into where you want to start pouring for example
then tools for joining materials that would be
So this is for joining, you can use a bolt, a screw, but also a winch to join things.
Okay, no, the winch is a different thing.
That would be the orange to tighten and fasten. That would be my wrench, or that would be my screwdrivers.
And tools to work on the surface of materials would be in purple, there would be a file, for example, or a chisel.
So have a little bit of rhythm.
OK.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Okay, if you're done.
Thank you.
The whole link of gripping is green, that would be the bytes, and you can use the pliers for that.
Then to measure and to mark off, that here is in blue.
and something like the caliper or the measuring tape, whatever that is.
The bleeding, so we're putting stuff together.
It's red here, that's for the screws and bolts and stuff.
And then we've got to tighten or fasten that.
You tighten or fasten the screws.
So that's orange and yellow to work on the surface.
I'm going to use purple there.
just to have a
general understanding
one question about
we convert because in America
today in America Britain has changed when it comes to tools for example
they use the so called imperial system
whereas we use the metric system
any idea what the difference is
or how much let's say for example
in America they would measure something in inch
what about is an inch
general understanding
a measuring tape for example
would have centimeters an inch
centimeters or an inch
like 10 centimeters
or 4 inches
exactly, that's quite good
So, one inch is 2.54 centimeters, and then when you come to measuring, you use mils, and a mil is one thousandth of an inch, so it's a quarter millimeter about, to have an idea.
Okay, then I would ask you to put the German terms there.
I don't want you to translate it.
I just would ask you to.
So one of you is going into a DIY shop and the other one is answering the question. So you want to order something. You say what you want to have and the other person can naturally come in.
Today, we have a special offer called a discount, and then we can tell you all sorts of words.
Try to catch the words as much as possible.
I'll come back to the stuff next time. I understand it's a little difficult.
you're not having all the basic understanding
that the federal understood
so we'll do that a little more next time
I'm sorry
I don't have the Chinese
do you speak any German?
yeah
so maybe you wanted to try it
have we got
you know people that work together?
hello
So, do we need this tone or do we need to do this?
My English is not good.
Me too.
That's good.
I want to learn German. I can speak English well, but unfortunately I can't speak German very well because the two speakers are very similar, so I don't understand.
All right, let's just try it.
Which one do you want to be?
I don't care, I think.
Okay.
Yeah.
Uh...
Do I do the A role, you the B role, or what?
Okay.
I'm working in the center of a line-tour shop.
The customer is calling.
Fourth look. The fourth is over.
Staying up at that.
Yeah.
Oh, God.
Oh, God.
Uh...
Roll, fork, key, wheel, card
Yes, for my roll I need to sell this thing
Yes, here
Yes, for this thing
One moment
All good
I do not know at all.
I have no idea about this either.
I have no idea either.
Yes, exactly.
Keychains, what are keychains?
I don't know.
This one, probably.
This is Alan King.
Yes, Erlenki.
Okay.
Yes.
Screwdrivers are...
These are...
Screwdrivers...
This is probably it. Screwdrivers.
This is...
possible.
Yes.
And...
Seitenschneider, nicht beinhaltet, Schraubenschlüsse gewünscht.
Seitenschneider.
Was ist Seitenschneider?
Ich habe auch keine Ahnung.
Ich habe diese Wörter von Deutsch und Englisch gar nicht gelernt.
Nee, alles gut.
Ich weiß es auch nicht.
Seitenschneider.
Ich brauche Übersetzen, aber...
Ah, das ist Seitenschneider.
Oh, Aksu.
Okay.
So,
this is...
There is no side-cutter here.
This is what...
Yes, but side-cutter looks different.
Cutter...
I think they are both similar.
Yes, then let's take this one.
Yes.
I think maybe the number 5 is the cutter.
Yes, exactly.
Or this one.
This is the tin snip or metal...
Tin snip or metal...
Metal scissors.
I have no idea what this door looks like, it looks like a door cutter, doesn't it?
Okay, let's just try it.
to Ellen Key set and how much it cost Ellen he said about when you want to
If you want to buy 5 pieces of iron stoves, you need to pay about 50 EUR.
But you can get a really good price, about 50 EUR to pay for the tours.
That's a nice song.
Ah, this is the BICE song.
Oh, this is the BICE song.
Yes, great.
And this one.
This one?
Yes.
Number 15.
Yes.
BICE song.
I don't know what the key is
I don't know
Gables
Oh, a gable key
Oh, a gable key
Oh, a gable key
I think it's this one
This one? Yes
31, right?
Water pump, please
Water ...
Water ...
Oh
Charge
Thank you
Great, thank you
Thank you very much
No problem
Thank you
Thank you very much
Length?
Yes
Yes, good
Perfect
yeah okay i would like to order 10 uh what was that water ply ah water pump plies
What's the price?
And...
Ten...
What's the price?
Oh god...
Merc French is...
Then...
Roll fork key is...
I don't know
probably this one
31
water pump
pliers
and the other one
because I also have 31
which one do you have?
washer
Washer, that can be
Yes, yes, yes
No
Yes, oh version number 33 number 33 is
Yes
This
Oh, did you hear that?
Like this...
There?
Oh, yes, exactly.
It's number 33.
I'm learning something by heart.
I think we can do it over time.
Yes.
Exactly.
No problem.
It's easy.
I hate English
What did you say?
I hate English
English very much
I think English is the same as German
But the two languages are very similar
My favorite language is Chinese
There is a big difference between the two languages.
I think it's difficult for me to master both languages very well.
And after I learned German, I speak German very often.
That's why I can't speak German and English as I usually do.
How long have you been learning German?
Two years.
Oh, you speak good German.
Not in Germany, in China.
At school?
Not at school, at uni.
Oh, okay.
At uni.
Yes, for four semesters.
Oh, good German.
I think my German is not good enough.
Oh, German is a difficult language.
Yes, exactly. That's why I've only been learning German for two years.
Yes, but you... I've been learning English for four years and I can't do that.
In China, in our school days, we learn English every day.
But at uni, I'm learning German and the subject.
Ah, okay.
I'm very lonely.
Well, yes. Good, but good German.
Difficult, yes.
kind of difficult probably too difficult for you i actually understand that so we have to
go back a little on that um maybe we can do the last exercise to finish this up and then
you can join or start your weekend if you go to the last page so what you do very simple stuff
what you do to a bolt or to a screw would be the same thing you turn them
right you want them to go somewhere so you either tighten them or the opposite
is you untighten them as you turn them in or out another way of saying that is
is you can also fasten a bolt or a screw.
So you fasten or you tighten it.
And the other thing is you untighten it
or you loosen a screw or a bolt. That's what you do to them.
And what would you use for that?
Wrenches.
A wrench, exactly, for example.
or a socket wrench, or whatever it's asked to be.
Now, I didn't put it there
because I thought then the word is clear.
You have a nail, and what do you do to a nail?
You knock it or you drive it into the wall.
I didn't put the thing here,
but what's the tool you use for that?
A hammer.
Right, that would be a hammer
if you don't want to use your hand.
Then if you want to hold, you have a work piece, maybe you want to file on it, and it must be held.
What do you use there?
The vice.
Right, that would be the vice.
And so that's this one thing you usually put on a table.
And then you can, again, you can tighten and untighten the vice.
And in American, if you come across that, it's written with an S, vise, called vise.
To cut wire.
A wire cutter or a side cutter or these pincers, exactly.
anything you want to use to measure dimensions
dimension is
what are the dimensions of something
we usually have 3D
things, so if we have
I don't know, some kind of a box
or a piece of metal
what are the dimensions, there are three dimensions
One is height, one is length, exactly length, and we have depth.
That's how deep you go into that, which could also be width, the variety.
tape, so I don't know, use a ruler, use a measuring tape,
or use anything else.
A hex socket, a hex is only six, so that would be,
would look like that here, right?
That would also be any kind of a wrench.
to loosen a nut
you remember what was a nut
that's what you put at the back of a bolt
to join something
what can you use there
we have a couple of things
example
what do you say
maybe
french or something
to tighten a slide screw
we need a sensible
and maybe to remember the term
these
gaming machines where you put money
into like in Las Vegas
they're called slot machines
there's a slot where you put the money into
maybe that's to remember this
to cut sheet
first question
what is sheet?
So metal sheet or steel sheet, so rolled out metal, which is used as a housing of a machine
or something like that.
What do you use there?
You don't use scissors?
Tin snips or metal shears?
Right.
Either you speak of shears and metal shears or these tin snips.
If you hang up something and you want to make, like, you put some shelves on the wall and you want to make sure they're hung up straight, what would you use?
A spirit level.
That's called a spirit level, right?
And then you also say something is in level.
Straight.
To finish the surface of a workpiece by hand, the surface is the outside of it.
Sandpaper.
Sandpaper.
Or, what else would you use?
A fire.
A fire.
To cut a metal shaft, do you know what a shaft is?
A welle is a metal rod in the end that's used in a machine or whatever to transport torque.
That's basically what a shaft is for.
How do you cut it?
You want a wrench, but...
An angle grinder?
Hand? We don't have an angle grinder here.
Axle? Axle is a good angle grinder.
And finally to mark off a drill hole.
So if you want to drill somewhere,
And the problem is, if you start with the drill right away, it will jump.
It will give you a kick.
And so you want to make a little hole.
Center punch.
That's called a center punch, you can say.
Okay.
And as I said, I'll come back to that a little so I'm going to spoon feed it a little more to you.
Thank you. If you haven't been in the workshop at all, then this is certainly a little hard. I understand it's a language we're not used to.
