We need a lot of grammar to communicate with other people.
Just a couple of basics, if you allow me to do that.
And I would ask you or ask us to go through this together,
because each sentence, kind of like all these sentences,
are referred to a problem in English grammar.
And the biggest things are always the verb tenses,
even though it doesn't matter very much if you want to know how to use it correctly,
that you should know what stands behind it, just to check that.
And I will also make a rather short section in the test about grammar,
but I'm not going into super detail about, I don't know,
conditional clauses with
stative verbs and modal verbs
and all that kind of stuff
because it's really not necessary
and especially if you write something
it should be okay
if you write an email to a supplier
that the language is more or less okay
on the other hand
you will find some
spell checking on the internet
or probably some
artificial intelligence which will write the email
for you
that it's not such a big issue anymore today
first one, excuse me
what do you say here
leave or I will call the police
which form of the verb
has to go in here
exactly, so this is
when do we use
the
progressive form
what are you doing here
so I can't say excuse me
what do you do here
That would be English.
Second one, I hear you have a new job.
How...
Do you want to go again? Yes, please.
How did you get it?
Sorry.
On is...
To get on is...
How is...
How do you like it there?
Is it working out?
If this is in the present also, I hear you have a new job.
What would you say?
Would you use present or present progressive again?
So he said, what do you get on or how are you getting on in your new job?
The second one.
The second one.
Again, how are you getting on?
This is the progressive form. The first one, what are you doing there? Because I'm doing something at the moment, right?
The second one is, I'm doing something for a limited period of time in my new job.
So present progressive is also for a longer period of time, but it's a limited period of time.
You are, if you're not from here, and if you don't live with your parents, you would say, I am living in Kempton,
But when you're done with your studies, then you're moving somewhere else a limited period of time.
Therefore, you use the progressive form.
But I suppose you know that.
So how are you getting on?
Number three.
Which tense is one you use here?
right so past so what's the past of catch called i caught the flu last year while on holiday
and the second one is
you ever get sick on holiday which tends to want to use a hammer
educated guess
have you ever got
right
have you ever
now I have to change
I have to change
what is called present perfect
half and third form
why? because I have the every in there
have you ever gotten
sick
That's also okay. That's American English.
Got or gotten.
Because I have present perfect is always the time I talk about kind of like includes the present.
And ever is all my life and that includes the me right now, right?
And therefore I have to use the present perfect.
And here it would sound kind of weird to say, did you ever do this or that?
It sounds like I'm dead, or I no longer have the time to do it, or I have the possibility to do it.
Jack and Jill are married. In fact, they have been married, exactly.
so again here um i have to change the tense in english i say something is the way it is
and then i add how long and then i say which one is it before or since five years
four is the amount of time since it's when it started so since the first of august 2020
Good. And then they got married, right?
They got married in April of 2020.
Next one.
Which issue are we talking about here?
Again, first part, when I...
There's no law.
You want to give it a try?
What would you do for the first sentence?
When I have been to China, have been and have tried, it's yesterday.
So you use the past.
So I would just say, when I tried to open the door yesterday, I realized I had left.
Exactly.
This is called the past perfect now.
Why do we use it here?
because the had-left-the-kids-at-home-at-your-house
necessarily happened before the past
because it influences the past, right?
Otherwise, I wouldn't have been able to open the door.
Uh-huh?
Uh-huh?
You're just using the past here.
Can you say it again?
No, there's actually no reason in that one, because you're just talking about what happened in April 2020.
They got married in April 2020. You only have that information.
Only if something, they got married in 2020 because they, I don't know, there was this couple in Pakistan who had to get married, I just read that on the news this week, because they kissed in public.
They got married last week because they had kissed in public.
Somehow they were forced to get married.
I don't know.
Whatever.
So this is the, now we have the present, we have the past.
present perfect, and then we have the past perfect.
Next one.
Which tense would you use now?
I was making, right?
That's the past progressive or past continuous.
You are or you were at doing something and then something else happens
So we say I was making dinner
When suddenly a rock
when action is going on and then the one action was going on and then the other
that's the situation of the past progressive form then i have to go now for a promise
what's in the future right i'm making a promise which future tense do i use with promises
we'll be back i will be back
I have to go now, but I will be back.
Tom has decided to lose some weight, I hope.
We'll be successful.
and
the last one
what are you going to
what are you going to
so promises
or will, hopes, or will, anything which is kind of like a prediction for the future,
that's will, whereas the plan and the question for the plan is going to.
Now, you hear Americans using going to almost all the time, except for promises.
I know the Terminator doesn't say, I'm going to be back.
He says, I will be back, also in American English.
and something like, I hope this
will happen. You don't say, I hope this is
going to happen. Also in American
news. Apart from that,
Americans usually say
going to or going to do it.
So there's not
a...
What you learn in school and what the reality
is, is sometimes not always the same.
Don't do that.
If you want to take part in the
play next month,
It closes which possibilities do we not have.
The basic one, if you help me, I will give you money, right?
So I say, you will have to practice more.
If I, I would not tell anybody about this.
Yeah?
I'd worry you.
Right.
If I were you, you can also say if I was you.
That's somehow people found it, that's the language, if I was you.
What you don't say is if I would be you.
That's not possible.
Remember in the if clause, don't use would or will or anything in or behind the if side of the clause.
So if I were you, you use, it's actually not the past tense, grammatically speaking, it's, which doesn't exist apart from that in the English language, it's the so-called subjunctive, like in French, if you studied French or Spanish or Italian, you might know that, it doesn't come up very often, and of course it doesn't, it's the past tense in the end, of all this.
I would have been late for school if you,
which tense is used there?
So this is in the past, right?
I would have been late for school,
Which tense do I now use in the first part?
Had not woken
Can you say it again? Had not woken
If you hadn't woken me up
Had not or hadn't woken me up
I would have been late for school
Exactly. So past perfect and
now to make things more difficult you can also mix the tenses if you weren't always so lazy you
so i'm basically lazy somebody says to me if you weren't always so lazy
what would have happened last semester
You would have passed the exam list, you would have passed.
So, just to show that this is in the present, I am lazy.
And somebody says, if you were not so lazy.
And this is in the past.
Because this is last semester, and this is always me.
So this is why we can now mix these two tenses.
Is that kind of clear?
Does that ring a bell from what you had in school sometime ago?
No?
And the other one.
I would feel much better today if I...
The usual first thing in the morning as a university student...
If I...
so this time
this is the present
and this is in the past
right?
yesterday
so if this is in the past
I have to use
past perfect
if I
had
gone
to bed earlier
yesterday, today
I would feel better.
All right.
I didn't hear from Tom at all yesterday.
Well, he told me he...
No, I wouldn't say was trying.
And this is why not, the point is, this is indirect speech, he told me.
And now I have to change the verb.
In German, we say, er sagte, er hätte, er habe, er hatte.
in English you also have to change the verb tense
so
he says
I tried to call her
but she wasn't at home
now he told me
you have to go
it's called back shift
maybe you remember that from school
he told me he had
You could probably say he had been trying to reach you yesterday, but you, again, he
says she wasn't at home.
Now he said that you weren't, that you hadn't been at home, right?
is back shift in indirect speech meaning I put everything one step into the past
if I say oh look the Sun shines then he said what did he say he said the Sun not
shines leave what did he say I said I
And again, this is our speech thing, is it?
You have to say, I said, I, and how do I put this?
You can't say in English, I want that you leave.
Well, how do you put it?
Because the want to always has to stay together.
Or, well, it doesn't have to stay together.
That's not right.
But you don't use that with want in English.
So I say, I want you to believe.
No, sorry.
I said, I wanted you to believe that.
I said, I wanted you to believe.
Sorry for the silence.
The next one, how did you get hurt?
First, I am.
By a car and a wild, wild thing.
You can either say I got, or it's passive, or I was hit, hit hit hit, you do hear some
people say hit hit hit, you can also put I got hit, that's right.
There is a difference in passive between direct and indirect passive, or stative passive and active passive.
You can't always use get, so really was is these two.
So I was hit or I got hit by a car while I...
As you don't take yourself to hospital, again passive, while I was taken to hospital, I broke my arm.
when this is something I do myself, right?
So this is no longer passive.
This is active again.
So it's when I pull L off the stretcher.
Then the last three. I'm looking forward to you ever write an email.
To me too.
To?
Me too.
Almost?
Me too.
Me too.
And then we go to the problem issue is, the grammar issue is, you use a, this is called a gerund.
Doesn't matter what you call it. Sometimes if you have these two verb constructions to look forward,
and then there's another thing coming. If you have a preposition to it, in this sense,
sentence, two is a preposition, then you use the inform. Keep it like that. That's an easy
way of thinking and remembering. So, yes, the strange sentence is, I'm looking forward
to meeting you next Saturday.
Next one, I'm used.
How do you say that?
I'm used.
I am used to the same thing, to working hard.
I do it very often.
I'm used to doing it.
And the last one, I'm very interested.
Holly, put that.
I was interested in something, and now you're interested in knowing the exact same thing.
It's gerund and infinitive, that's the last thing we have.
Good.
From the sheet we looked at last time,
And there was one thing missing, kind of, right?
And so you might have heard about the work
of these different industries.
I also showed you that film about the Industrial
Revolutions.
And there's one sheet left, which
I wanted to have a short look at, which is about who
is who in our economy.
just a very broad overview to understand what goes into here this here is us as we are all
here and the main thing that we do is we buy products and services right that's our job in
an economy and therefore we are consumers we are the consumers in our
economy now there is somebody else in our economy and this is the enterprises
or businesses. And a third important actor, we have the consumers, we have the enterprises,
basically the sense of an economy is to produce goods and services so that we can consume.
Who else has influence in our economy?
Who else plays a role in our economy,
apart from those who consume and those who produce?
Or is that it?
No, it isn't it, certainly, because otherwise I
wouldn't have so many errors and other factors.
Who else acts in the economy?
I'm sure you know, what would you say? Who else is there?
The third one would be the government.
Now, enterprises produce goods and services, right?
and and we pay for these goods and services how do we have the money to do
that. So we consume. This is how the enterprises get money. Consumption. How can we afford
this consumption how come that you have the money to buy all these nice little computers
Where does it come from?
Mommy and daddy.
Okay.
And where do mommy and daddy get it from?
Oh, grandma.
They get a part of it from these enterprises, right?
How do we call this money that we get from the enterprises where we are employed?
Right.
These are the salaries and wages.
Salary or wage, same word.
If we don't get enough salary and wage, what else do we get from the government in order to consume?
If you don't have enough money to consume, you don't have to die.
The state gives you money.
How do we call this money?
That the state pays you.
That's called social benefits.
how does the state
get money from us
how do we count the money
that we give to the state
Texas, right, so, for example, we pay income tax and many other of this form,
so you have a certain salary, on the salary you pay income tax.
There is another form of tax that we pay, which is a purchase tax.
When you buy something, you also pay the tax.
Usually, there are a few things which do not cost tax.
But most of the time, there is a tax attached to every purchase of a good or a service.
what's that tax called you look at the receipt you see what it costs and then
you pay 90% most of the time extra money that goes to the state what's that that
is called VAT, which is short for value added tax. And then there are certainly more. There's
tobacco tax and petrol taxes and all kinds of different investment tax and you name it.
But generally, income tax and then all the purchasing or the consumption taxes and VAT
is the biggest chunk for that and so basic social benefits you get from the state without doing
anything from it apart from that if you are employed you pay something else to the state
in order to get unemployment benefits for example
or you pay for your health insurance what's that money called
These are called social security contributions.
So that's the money that the state then has to finance itself.
The enterprises at the same time also pay a tax to the state.
So, that would be this arrow here.
What's that called?
If you have a company, you pay income tax, but the company also pays a tax.
That's called corporate tax.
corporate tax for their consumers get social benefits and certainly all the infrastructure
for their taxes enterprises also can get something back from the state if they are
in need how do we call money that supports enterprises if they have a problem it's not
always you don't get like social benefits as an enterprise but you can get money from the state
and that is
German is
Subpensionen
you might have heard that before
it's called subsidies
so subsidies is
state support for a company
for example
They paid money during Corona for a lot of companies because the companies had great economic troubles.
and the German word for that is
Now, this is
foreign countries
The enterprises mainly trade with other enterprises in foreign countries.
How do we call that? Simple. So, goods that are sold to other countries or to other enterprises in other countries
and goods which are bought in other countries. What's that called?
Exports and imports, exactly. So these enterprises, they get money from exports and they receive or they pay money to other countries in imports.
You can certainly, if you want to go on a website, you can buy something directly under 10G.
That happens only on a very small level.
Most of the time 99% of what we consume in products is that we buy from domestic enterprises.
There is one form of direct import.
That is very big where consumers directly import services from other countries.
Can you think of the main form of direct import?
I'm sure you have all, apart from buying something on the internet, you have all directly imported a service from abroad.
The main field there is tourism.
Tourism is usually a direct import from other countries.
You fly on unknown air France, you import a French service.
Or you book a hotel in Spain, you import a Spanish service and so on.
So that's the main. There are others, as I said, you can also buy something online if you want to,
buy it in another country, but it doesn't really happen on a large scale.
So most of the time that is done through enterprises.
Government in foreign countries, is there money flowing?
That's very little actually. An example could be development aid.
so we pay into other countries now with the end of the apparently whatever it is the end of the
israel-palestine conflict there's money no flowing down there to rebuild the country that would be
pay into foreign countries last one where does our money come from and
that's the last big actor in the economy how is it done that all this money flows
around here between the government and the enterprises who puts the money in
circulation how can you have money so bills in your wallet how can you transfer money
from your account to somebody else's account how does that it must come from somewhere
right it's not just there would be nice if you could make it yourself but you can't
but does the employer come to you and say here's the money off you go where does the
employer have the money from if you need cash money where do you go to right so the money
basically comes from the banks right now if your employer doesn't have enough money to give it to
And how does the employer, or how do you, if you have more wishes than you have money,
how do you increase your money, your budget?
Right, so the banks give credit or loans to enterprises and to consumers.
And that way, this whole circle is loaded up.
It's increased by many, many times.
So a lot of the money here doesn't really exist before it.
It's not really created.
But it's given to the consumers or the enterprises by the banks.
And then the question is, where do the banks get the money from?
Who gives the banks the money?
The state.
The government?
In that sense?
Do they print the money and then give it to them?
Well, it's a state agency, I would say, but there's a reason, so, I mean, I suppose you
can guess from here, it's the last black square up there, but it's not the government.
Where do the banks get money in any economy?
Who makes the money?
There is a bank of the banks,
and that is called the so-called central bank.
What is the name of the central bank for Germany?
But the Deutsche Bundesbank is no longer independent.
The Deutsche Bundesbank is part of the European Central Bank.
So in our case it is the European Central Bank.
Do you know where the European Central Bank is located?
In Frankfurt, exactly.
Now, if you go to the bank and you want to get a loan,
meaning you want to get credit, what do you have to give them in exchange?
I mean, you go there and say, I need 10,000 euros, I want to buy a new car,
or 50,000, but I want to have a fancy car.
The bank will say, yes, off you go, here's the money. No, they don't.
They will check if you're creditworthy,
And what do you have to give in exchange for the loan?
Financial security or something.
What's that?
Financial security or something.
I have to give them security so they know they get the money back.
Plus what else do you always have to pay for that?
Interest.
Interest, right.
So you get a loan against interest.
interest since Britain.
And the banks get money from the European Central Bank
or the Federal Reserve in the United States
or the Bank of England in Great Britain
or whoever it would be.
How do you know if you pay a lot of interest if you take out a loan or not?
Who determines that?
Exactly. So one thing certainly my financial security,
my creditworthiness, apart from that there is an interest of the European Central Bank.
So these banks also have to pay interest and this interest has a special name.
That's what I'm shooting at last thing and then we'll go to that.
What's the name of the interest that the banks have to pay to the central bank?
In German, it's called the key interest rate and that determines how much interest we have
to pay to the banks in exchange, and that determines the overall interest level in the
economy. At the moment, it's not super high. The key interest rates are somewhere around
2%, but just a few years ago, just two years ago, the interest rates were much, much higher,
And we had a lot, we had very, very high interest because also we had higher pleasure.
So that's what we did.
Okay, just to have a little overview of kind of like who is who in the economy
and who are the actors in this economy.
I would ask you for one thing, if you have no questions, there is another file there
which is called work so we'll go on a little from the basics of economy more
towards working in a company so what I would just ask you is to have a short
look at the text there so we can look in a couple of words
so i've lived and worked in germany for almost a decade i've noticed the work-life balance here
feels different than what i've seen in the us um maybe before you go into that a question
do you think germany as far as you i'm sure even if you haven't had a lot of
experience in the work life. Do you think work in Germany offers a good work-life
balance?
What would you expect?
Do you think we have it very hard? Do you think we have it very stressful here?
Are you shaking your head? I don't know. You don't know.
From what you know about the United States, would you think the United States is more stressful, more relaxed?
Okay, I would ask you to have a look at the text then, and then we can fully discuss that
and yeah, just look at the terms there, okay?
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
So, maybe you've been able to read it.
I just wanted to mention a couple things now.
It starts out, he says he applied for a job.
To apply for a job. Meaning?
You applied for it.
You said that you'd like to have it.
What would you write if you apply for a job?
You write a job with the noun to apply for.
You write a job application.
and the job application would include a letter, which is called a cover letter,
where you say what you want to do, and all information about yourself,
why you're interested in the job, and all that kind of stuff.
That's the application.
Now, the next step would be that you might be invited for a job interview,
where they talk to you and test you and you understand the church okay and and that is
usually done by HR and in this case by the HR manager what is HR right it stands for human
resources. And so the HR manager is the head of the HR or human resources department.
And that's the group of people who deal with all the personnel, the personnel issues.
So, anything that has to do with recruiting people, paying people, training people, all that kind of stuff, that's a business of an HR department.
Okay, so he goes there, he sends an application, and he is invited to a job interview where he also shows his resume.
That's the American word.
In British English, there's another term which you might be familiar with. The CV, exactly. Your CV is the list of work experience and school that you have.
A little different in the English-speaking world than in the German-speaking world.
In the German-speaking world, you usually write down in a table what you've done so far.
In English, it's more comprehensive, I would say, where you talk a little about jobs,
what you learned in a job, what exactly you have to do in a job.
job. We could have a short look at a little later differences between some CDs or resumes
that you have there. Okay, then he starts his job and it starts with a so-called probationary
period. Which you could also call a trial period. Do you understand the word probation
or probationary? What does that mean? So it's a time where you have to, where they test
you and see if you're good enough. Probation is also criminal law. You can be sentenced
to prison, but on probation, meaning you don't have to go into prison. If you behave well,
then you are on probation. Right. So then he becomes a team leader and he says that
after some time he is promoted. So he gets what we call a promotion. This promotion has
nothing to do with marketing it means if you get a promotion what do you get you get a better job
exactly you get a higher position in the company so you yeah get a higher position
and he becomes deputy head as i mentioned before head of a department or manager of the department
and that's the same thing, means the same thing,
just two terms for the same.
The deputy, who's the deputy?
Maybe you know that from, I don't know, a Western film,
the deputy and the sheriff.
So the deputy is kind of like the second person in line.
You have the manager and then you have the deputy manager
when we go that kind of like the vice the vice manager of a position the second in line that's
that's the deputy okay then germans are said to be what's that hard working so that means
not only you work a lot you have to work a lot so you put a lot of effort into your work
That's the meaning of it.
You understand diligent?
Diligent is you want to do the job the best way possible.
If you clean the room, it's absolutely clean afterwards.
If you, I don't know, make a presentation,
it's the best presentation you can have.
That's diligent.
So, yeah.
and with all details you could say with all details
including all right so he likes the job security or not the job yeah he likes
the job security they work by balance and the one thing is it's not easy
to lay off people to be laid off or to lay off what is that
to lay somebody off would you know a synonym maybe right to fire like he says there in america it's
easy to be fired in germany it's not so easy to lay off is just it's it's the the neutral term
to fire is kind of like you kick people out that's a derogatory term for that and another word would
dismiss somebody means the same as to lay off and the reason is we have in
Germany we have some labor laws labor is anything that has to do with work I have
a typo in the text I have to admit here the same word again labor and labor just
always American or you with British English and you just use whatever you
prefer and if you mix it up I don't care very much either so you use what you
want to use that's okay so labor is work laws working laws anything that has to
do with it then we have the two people employees that's you who receive work
and the person who gives you the work the company is your employer and if
anything happens there are two organizations which support you as a
worker that's the labor union and the Works Council the labor union is do you
understand the terms the union so difficult to explain that so I just put
the German term you know for once that's the event shaft so that's the general
organization that supports organizes and represents workers a club of workers
that help each other and then you have within the company you have a group of
people who work for the benefit of the employees and that's called the Works
Council and maybe you heard that in you have label law do you have a class in
that coming later on depending on the size of the company the larger companies
they even have people who only work in the Works Council,
have no responsibility in the company itself,
but they're paid by the company.
Any idea what that is? Auf Deutsch.
Der Betriebsrat.
Der Betriebsrat.
That does not really exist in every country.
So, for Americans, that is always a little difficult to understand, how the employees can have so much importance in a company.
And if you go into, we'll touch that a little later on, the legal organization of companies in the German public limited company,
the workers in the Works Council even have a right in determining who leads the company.
So there's a lot of representation.
Then he says the greatest perk is the vacation time.
What would you say is a perk, meaning you've come across this term before?
sometimes people even use it now
when they talk in German
when they mix German and English terms
a perk
a perk is every non-financial benefit
that you get from a company
benefit so you will get your salary and then you get perks like you can use a company car
you get extra vacation you get extra health insurance you get extra pension insurance from
the company you get free membership in a gym all that kind of stuff is what the
company can give you and as I said also here special holidays right and what
also strikes him is that when people in this country leave their workplace they
go home and that's it and then they come back Monday morning and in America
that's different people will be reachable over time i put a question here so it also struck
me mexico which seems to be the country of la fiesta and having a good time has the highest
amount of working hours in the world whereas germany actually has the least working hours in
the world and the u.s has even the u.s is also a rich country i mean i can imagine in a poorer
country you have to work a lot so you can make ends meet right so we can get
the money that you need why do you think americans work so much more than we do
i mean it's a rich country the average income the average income in the united
states is 30 higher than it is in germany
so it's there's quite a big distinction why do you think people work
works so much here up there sorry so much more than we do
I think that's a big thing they have no social benefits and you're always afraid
of being fired in the end you can you can there is no labor protection you can
be fired within a week and then there is no salary coming next week anymore so
you have to show a lot of dedication to the job if you want to keep your job and
And the second thing is, so there is a little protection, as you said, no social benefits, so people often, people who have low paid jobs, they work two jobs and they work for 15, 16 hours a day.
They go from one job and then go to the other job because a lot of the jobs are really badly paid and so this average income means that there are many people who make $500,000 a year, much more than over here.
But at the same time, there are also people who make like $25,000 and you cannot really live off that money in the United States because there's no support from the state. So it forces people to work huge amounts of hours just to kind of like feed their children. There is no support for if you have little children and no like little protection and no social state.
no social support, or almost no social support, and in the end they have a huge gap between
rich and poor. So they do have, on average, more income than we have, for example, but
only a part of the country benefits from that income,
a big part of the country is left out
from this high income.
I have four speech bubbles down here
with common mistakes between English and German here.
It's geared towards German speakers.
What are the mistakes?
Let's maybe start over here.
My work giver pays a good salary.
What's wrong?
Right. That would be what we have of the employer, right?
Anything else?
Celery.
Right. This is what you can eat.
There is celery. That exists.
But it's a little different.
It's this celery.
Number two, the personals show a lot of engagement.
What are the mistakes, two mistakes in there, again?
but personal, this word personal is something that is personal. It has to do with me as
a person. You will have to say something like staff. What you can put is this one, personal.
That exists as a word, and that's also okay, but this personal is just things that have
to do with me personally and then it says they show a lot of engagements what's engagement
what's an engagement
show you about
Right, it can be, for example, a promise of marriage, that would be an engagement.
It can also mean that I'm very engaged at the moment, I have a lot to do.
that it can also be
or you can be engaged
in a situation
that a lot of things come at you
that can also be engagement
how can you say that
I show a lot of work
I'm very hard working
in my job
I identify with a job
that's the German form of engagement
isn't it
how would you say that in English
courage
Courage. Courage. Well, courage is valor, right? That's courage. Here it's more in the sense of that I'm very hardworking to what I do.
I would say something that you show a lot of dedication.
Or maybe something like you show a lot of commitment.
Then we got, we can work in the home office one day per week.
What's wrong there?
You don't work in the home office in English, only in German.
You don't say that.
What would he say if you come across that?
you would say you can work from home
that's one of the again one of these many strange words that were picked up
in German which are English but are not used in English
you're handy or jogging or last one in this fabric it's coming to work layers
Number one, what's fabric?
I think it's a textile.
That's a textile, exactly.
So what's the English word for that?
Where do you produce things?
Where do you have all the machines and produce stuff?
That's called a factory.
And you don't work layers, so you work different times during the day.
You can work at night, some people work in the morning, some people work in the afternoon, yeah?
Right, you work shifts, not layers.
Okay, then I have a little film for you about exactly the difference in work culture.
All right.
Thank you.
