Let me turn on the lights a little.
I would say, I don't, if you tell me you want to do it otherwise, otherwise I would, if you don't, I would say no.
don't tell me otherwise otherwise i would just say we'll continue as we did last time we'll be able to
like wait for you i don't know uh let's say 130 140 minutes in one part and then we're done
so that's okay because as i said 180 minutes for the afternoon in english is
a little long i can't imagine that but you you seem to be i don't know um
And what can I say, accustomed to that, because you have very long classes every day, right?
Okay, so is this what you imagine it to be?
But we would have some hours free on Thursday morning.
Right, I know, but I can't come there, unfortunately.
I planned one activity, and as I said, we might want to go to a company and look at that.
And we could do that Thursday morning.
Unfortunately, it doesn't work apart from that, not on a regular basis, because I can't come in that morning.
I can't really get to it. I just have to stick with it the way it is right now.
As I said, the point is, because I joined quite late, so most of the schedule had already been fixed,
fixed, and so they're just gaining this time.
But it's better than, I don't know,
starting at four in the afternoon on a Monday
or something like that.
I suppose then you guys won't have a lot of zest anymore
to do anything at all.
But how is it like in your studies now?
Do you have enough time to study?
Because you come home quite late.
Thanks so much.
I haven't tried it yet.
I can't imagine.
How do you adapt to studying?
Is the workload much harder than it was in school?
Or at the moment, rather lower?
The last two months before the exams were pretty hard.
In school?
No, here.
Okay.
But the time for it is maybe not that packed like in school.
Okay.
Yeah, so school there is more like the,
I know because you have tests all the time, right?
And here you have everything within a month
or within three weeks.
And so you have to do it without, you know,
it's this exam time and then losing the reins again,
loosening the reins again and things get easier behind that.
Okay.
And again, we are kind of like shifting the time or separating the time between business and technical stuff.
I wanted to totally come back to what we did the last time.
These tools, I have a second sheet here, which is called hand tools.
I just thought it would be nice for you to have a very basic understanding.
what I'd like you to know for the exam is just this page
not everything we did the first time
I understood that that was way too much
most of you don't have any
previous knowledge
of the subject
that was absolutely exaggerated
and I apologize for that
so this would be what I'd like you to have a look at
and what I'd like you to know in the future
just the very basics I would say the first exercise which maybe we could do
together and i always i took a tool out of there which have like double names you always have two
words for them and you have to combine part one and two and you have to say where you put it so i
Maybe I would give you one example, so if we start with adjustable, here, or does anyone
know what would work with adjustable?
and which is one of these eight tools that you see here in the trick.
Adjustable wrench.
Right, this would be the adjustable wrench and this is this one.
It's also called the monkey wrench in English.
So wrench, one of the things that you should remember is anything that is used to turn,
For example, here a bolt, that would be a wrench.
It can here, the idea is that you can change the size of the wrench so you don't have to bring a hundred different wrenches.
In British English there is also a word called spanner that's also used for a wrench, but only for the British.
And that is certainly a tool to tighten and untighten fasteners.
A fastener is something that combines, is a joining material, so screws and bolts and things like that, they're fasteners.
And what you do to them, you tighten them, you go clockwise and you untighten them, you go counterclockwise with the usual threads.
You can also say to fasten or to loosen things.
So here you would have your wrench, and in that idea here it's the adjustable wrench.
And as I said, in British English you can also call that a spanner.
Then if you go down there, do you know anything else that came across that?
I suppose, do you know this term here, the screwdriver?
Which will be this one here. What goes with a screwdriver?
I just love it.
And does this look like a screwdriver?
I know the question of looking at the picture.
picture this is not a slotted screwdriver and something else is slotted there you're
absolutely right so this type of screwdriver how do you say that in english
that's a phillips screwdriver right and and it's again for the same thing
and so the company that actually came up with it was the phillips company
and the torque that you have while turning is better than if you have a slotted screwdriver.
as you have mentioned
what would go with this
And it's this one here, right?
Which other word works with it?
Off you go.
It's true.
It's not as true.
What you see on the picture here is not as long as true.
this is a solid bolt there is a difference in english between well the bolt is not what we
have in german that's a different thing and this is a bolt and just to describe this shortly
what you have here on the side of it is what we call the thread
any screw or bolt will have a thread now a screw will make its own thread when you drive it into
the material so they usually are pointed the tip is pointed on the screw a bolt on the other hand
needs another thread so either you have a thread in the material or you use another fixing device
to get it so that's the difference in english so most of the time in uh when you when you think
When you think about machines, you would use bolts and not screws.
This would be a tool for joining a material, this would be a slotted bolt.
The boat is gone.
And what else have we got?
Maybe one other thing that is also quite important
are pliers.
These here are pliers.
Pliers are always things that you can easily use,
These are quite important because they are very tiny, so you can work on very small things.
We call them needle nose pliers, and those are supposed to be able to hold something, right?
And so for holding, you can use pliers if you want to.
So I think you remember the term,
especially pliers is important.
And the way you use them, you always say,
these are pliers, everything that has two sides,
like trousers, you use it in the plural.
So, a pair of pliers or the pliers in the cooler will help.
Then, what else do we have?
Also, imagine that you know what file is this time.
So, the word has two meanings.
you have a file on your computer which is the data of something and you have a file in your hand
and this would go with it
just it just refers to the
form of it would be a flat file right
one here, same thing, the black pile.
Then we would have to, for example, one here.
I suppose you know that this is a soul.
What kind of soul is it?
This is good for metal, for example.
You have to do that.
It's an axon.
That's an axon, for example.
So, that's good for metal, for example, and then we have two things left, and in here,
Exactly, this is a caliper, so the sense of a caliper, usually today you would have a
digital measurement on there, this is a rather old-fashioned one, you can put whatever it
is in between these two sides of it to measure, to have a really exact measurement of the
The spelling with a double L is the British spelling, you can also use one L, that's the
American spelling.
I don't really care very much, it would be nice to be consistent, there's also all the things like, I don't know, you probably know that there is labor, and there is labor, then there is, I don't know, a meter, and the British one is a meter, and so on, whatever you prefer.
I don't even care very much if you're inconsistent.
So if you combine labor and meter, it doesn't matter very, very much.
It should be sometimes there are different words in American English and in British English.
For example, if you think of cars, the parts in cars are very, apart from the technical parts,
because everything else, what you see on the car,
is most of the time they have a British name
and an American name on the back.
Like the wing or the fender, that's the side of the car,
above where the wheel is, the tire is.
That's maybe something what you should understand.
Apart from that, use words as you like more.
That's OK.
Right, then.
So that was the vernier caliper.
And then we have this last thing, look what that means.
Which looks like a pencil, but it's not a pencil.
So what you want to do, if you have a metal plate,
see my drawing skills are not exactly great.
And you want to start,
you want to drill a hole into something.
If you start with a drill bit right away,
the chances are that you will jump off
because they have a certain kick in the drill.
So what you do is you make a little dent
into where you want to drill.
So you want to put this here on your plate
and hit on it with a hammer.
So you have a little dent in there.
You can put the drill bit exactly where you want to start
and then you have a good hole in there.
And you use that quite often in metal cutting,
and that is called a center punch.
Now I'll use the American style.
So punching, I suppose it's easy to remember
if you did something.
Two-stroke drill.
Okay, second little exercise, I made two groups of them
and I would like you, hopefully you can guess,
if you can guess, make a good judgment
and where do the things belong to?
So give it a try yourself and I suppose most of it is kind of clear and then you can maybe
rule out what is wrong.
There we go.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Okay, so I'll just go through it here, and a nut is what you put at the back of the bolt.
So this here is a knot.
It's not mother as you might expect it.
And so a knot goes together with a bolt.
We will put a knot here to screw it on.
The knot, in order to understand how does...
We will come to that a little later on.
How does this joint work between...
So you have the bolt and the knot.
Physically what happens now?
Now, why does, if you have a material in between here,
why, so we'll be putting that down in the sense,
we need to have two things here.
Let's change that.
And if I have two plates in between,
And the bolt together with the nut is supposed to be open together.
Why does that work?
Where does the force come from to hold these things together?
We speak of the clapping.
What happens there?
Why does a bolt or a screw hold together things?
And in the end what happens is this bolt here expands, it gets longer, and materials as
they expand, they want to come back to their original size.
This is what pulls down on these two sides, the head of the bolt and the nut, they're pulled together.
And this is what we call preload force or something.
Maybe you've heard that before, force bind.
Have you ever come across that?
Maybe in physics we'll come to that.
what i want to do in order to increase this force in here is by putting a washer in between
i increase the size in the end of the nut and therefore i have more more power pushing together
so i have more clamping force in the end here more force pushing in there that's the sense of a
washer and there are many different washers in machines sometimes they also grab them they grab
into the metal for example so that they don't if you have a moving object
vibration will create a loosening of the nut and it grabs or grips into the material then
the loosening doesn't happen that easily that's a whole like science by itself that's all about
joints and fascinating okay so this would be the washer then we have number three an ellen
volt that's the one we have here um allen is another company that came up with a new way of
turning screws, and they came up with this interior hexagonal thing in Germany, the company
is Inbus, that's what we usually use for that. And the Phillips screw, this time it's a screw,
again, this across there, that's Phillips, and the screw will look like that. They don't
necessarily have to be pointed but the screw is used if you don't have a second thread then you
use a screw then we have the slotted screwdriver here it has this slot that's fine then we have
the allen key which would go into here so that works with it that's number six a normal wrench
fork
in British as I said
and the socket wrench
these are sockets
you also know the term
socket maybe from what you have
in the wall where you plug something in
a socket always has
this form, it's a hollow
something that's hollow
also in your face you have your eye socket
with an eye inside
so that's always a very similar
word there to use
good, second part
The pincers are a kind of pliers that you can use for cutting.
So this would be this one down here.
Then we have the scissors which you supposedly know from working at home or whatever.
The only pliers we have here is the combination pliers that can be used for cutting and for holding.
And then we have a spirit level which is this here.
here so the spirit level tells you because there's a bulb in there and it tells you if something is
in level or not so now the line would be this one is in level
this is our chisel
where you can scrape off the surface of an object.
A vice is this one over here.
The American spelling for this is vice with an S.
And you can say it has these two sides.
These are called the jaws.
We'll come back to machine tools.
They also have jaws.
And do you know what we call this one?
Something we can use to turn.
We can also use this in mechanics very much to increase the force.
It's called a lever, or also can be pronounced a lever,
and it gives us leverage effect.
So on a sea salt, for example.
So you can have, if you are on one side, this is longer, then you have leverage effect.
So you can lift more weight with a smaller force.
And that would be leverage.
And what else do we have?
The micrometer is this one here.
That is used kind of similar to a caliper.
so you can measure the distance between the two sides here,
especially for diameter.
Also, it's quite for small tolerances,
and then certainly measuring tape, the one over here.
I suppose that's,
Any questions about that?
I just wanted you to understand a few basic things here.
It would be strange to be a mechanical engineer and not know any tools.
There is a second page to that.
Let's just skip the picture, because that's the same.
You can do that for preparation means if you want to.
And have a look at that.
I would ask you, do you want to tighten?
Let's also think of these words.
is you tighten, the opposite is you fasten,
or you screw and you unscrew.
And Alan wrote, what do you need?
He likes to start with me.
Which tool do you need to tighten an Allen bolt?
It's almost the same thing, so it's also an allen, and then if we have, which is kind
of like a wrench, but a small wrench is called a key, so you speak of an allen key.
If you tightly hold the work piece you want to file,
it's going to be, what is it?
Right, you would put it into a vise,
and what you say is you clamp it into the vise.
You tighten a hex socket screw.
Hex socket means I have a compact screw.
of the screw, I have a socket, so that's the same thing as this one
so again, you want to have an Allen key
to loosen
a nut
or would you take
generally a wrench
To make sure what you hang up is straight, put a picture on the wall.
You take a spirit level, same thing.
To cut a metal shaft.
A shaft is a metal bar in the universe.
A shaft is something, if you look into a lot of members, or mechanical members, is something that transports power or force.
That's a shaft. An embellished object.
How can you cut that? What could you use?
Scissors won't work.
okay if they're really strong you can use some guys yeah I think it's all makes more sense
to mark off the drill hole this is what you say you use to make a little hole
roll into somewhere, you say you mark it off.
What was the tool used for that?
The center punch.
And finally, to exactly measure the diameter of a shaft,
diameter is just to mention that you have like a circle and this is the diameter of the shaft
and you add these things you don't need to remember it right now maybe somebody knows
how do you pull this measure off a circle going around the circle
You ever heard that?
That's called a circumference.
The diameter and the circumference
and the radius that's really
And this would be the whole inside.
By the way, I'm just talking about this.
Everything inside of a circle, or an angular form,
geometry is the area. So if you want to measure the distance from here to there and you want to be exact what to use
What we look at, you don't have to put this down, we look at stuff like a little math physics, how you basically choose basic terms again, and how you say stuff like that, so you're able to describe geometrical forms.
So what do you use to measure?
techniques or technology
for today
them
is
right
so
If you go to the other file, which should be there,
that's called Economics.
And when you look at that, you should
find a text that looks like this here,
the Third Industrial Revolution.
Alright, so what I would ask you to do is just read the text of the current industrial revolution.
And I just wanted to then mention a couple of things about it, mention a couple of words that have to do with the economy.
It's just like the basics are very common.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Okay, so let's have a look at that together, and just to make sure that you understand,
an assembly line, what's that?
So Ford mastered the moving assembly line and it's actually the basis of an assembly line is what we call a conveyor belt which is a moving band where we have something up which moves through the factory and then the idea is that people sit on the side of it, can do some assembly work.
To assemble is to put things together, montieren, we would say, is a montage, and then they just walk next to it, work on it, and the object, what is assembled here, can move through the factory and go on and on.
Okay, then let's see what else we've got here.
And the next term I wanted to mention was a little down here.
Customization.
What's that?
That products are customized.
Do you understand the term?
The customer, for example, can decide how the product is designed.
Exactly. So, not every product is the same, but every product is made to the wishes of the customer or the necessities of the customer.
We also call this, that something is made to measure, or you also speak, you have the term a little further up, it is tailor-made, which basically a tailor is a person who makes clothing,
that is really made to the size of a special person.
And that is an important feature of today's industry.
Everything, be it products, be it services,
you are trying to not only sell the mass product,
so identical products to a lot of people,
but to customize every product to what the customer needs.
And therefore, you have a huge amount of different .
And then, just maybe to understand this, if you need to weld.
Do you understand the term welding?
It's also a technology to join objects by heat.
Are you sure you understand the term?
Schweißen.
Schweißen, I've got to check.
So what you do is you heat up the material on the site, mostly done with electric arcs,
or it could be done with a gas torch.
The metals melt.
You usually have filler material for that, and then you have a welding seam that's left over afterwards.
and the things are joined together and then we have their 3d printing which is a novel form
of production in today's world we call 3d printing actually the official name for 3d printing is
is additive manufacturing, we'll come back to that a little later in the year
especially when it comes to plastic components, that is a good way of producing
But when it comes to metal, it doesn't really work that well.
There are only a few metals you can use today.
With titanium alloys, for example, you can create different things,
but not on a larger scale at the very moment.
Right, then, and I'm just going to go to the text here with a couple of things we're talking about.
The supply chain, what's the supply chain?
A company in the supply chain, every company has a supplier.
Supplier is the one who delivers the raw materials of products that you need for your production.
that's a supplier and the supply chain and then for example it's important that you manage your
supply chain is everybody who's involved in supplying your company with the products that you need
and then supply chain
as I said, everybody who's involved
in the delivery of
the products that you need
Thank you.
To collaborate, is another word for to cooperate, to work together.
And then the last term I wanted to mention here is offshore, offshore production.
And we talk of a term which is called offshoring.
What is that? To offshore production, offshoring.
If you produce your product in another country.
Exactly. So, especially not only in another country, but in a low-cost country.
If, let's say, Mercedes produces in the United States, then they do that to avoid customers and to be closer to the market where they want to sell something.
Off-shoring is exactly moving production abroad to save cost.
so
what would you say
just to
see where we are
in the text they mention
three industrial revolutions
so number one
the first revolution
if you had to come up with a
single pop word
what
was the first industrial revolution
about
what changed
the world
Right, and so we have in the end
the introduction of the factory, right?
So people come together in large numbers
to produce a certain good and meaning that's much more effective and saves a lot of cost.
Do you know which factory also has to do with mechanization?
Which machine is connected to this first industrial revolution?
what enables people to produce in factories.
There is one important machine in the history of mankind
that made mass production or factory production possible.
That's called the steam engine.
That's the 18th century when the steam engine was invented.
So you have to heat water, it leads to steam, and the steam moves a piston,
And the piston creates power and now you can move the machine like they had it here in weaving, for example.
It's much simpler than to weave clothing for people.
Then there is a second revolution at least mentioned in the text.
What's that second revolution mostly about?
I mean, there are different views in economics how many revolutions there are.
And this one mentions three.
What's the second revolution?
What was revolutionized at the beginning of the 20th century?
The assembly line.
Exactly, the assembly line and then mass production in the assembly line.
that would kind of like be the change that around.
So we have basically the assembly line
as well as the technology that was used
and the revolution was mass production.
And then they talk about the third revolution, which is about and what's the technical, the technology that changes our economy basically again.
Yes, digitalization.
One thing is digitalization, computers, the internet,
artificial intelligence, the other thing which
is mentioned in the text, for example,
which really changes the way we run our economy
is this 3D printing, right?
And what is that in the end?
What is the revolution now?
you can say accessibility
I would say also this customization
I can not only make
a huge amount of products
which all look the same
but I can make products
Accessibility, you can also say.
So people have much more access to products than they have before.
And though they mention this additive manufacturing of 3D printing, then what is the influence of 3D printing, if you look back to the text, on logistics?
How does 3D printing influence logistics?
if you read the text
if you're missing parts
you just kind of put it in yourself
and you don't have to wait for them
exactly, and that means for logistics
it's much easier
you need less
you need much
less
storing or we say
warehousing
a warehouse is the place where you store goods so if i can traditional
production in the economy is i produce goods i store them somewhere until they need it further
now what i can do is i can wait until something is necessary and i produce on the map
very very quickly second question what's the influence of 3d printing on the
finance industry our financial services different you need less workers and you
You also need less capital to do something.
They mentioned in the text before that if you wanted to start, let's say, a car production,
you needed a huge amount of money.
Today, if you want to start the new Google, something like that,
you don't need these high start-up costs anymore.
Basically there is less capital necessary, which in the end will probably mean we will be more innovative
because more people have the possibility to come up with innovative ideas.
And usually the problem is always if you are innovative, you need money, you need capital, and you need to find this capital somehow.
Last question. What's the influence of 3D printing on globalization?
So globalization is that we have a global economy with an international supply chain.
you'd be kind of shocked if you looked at I don't know what BMW makes a car
where all the parts come from and where the parts are shipped around the world to be
processed somewhere and then shipped to the next place so globalization is
mostly about global supply chains in production but also global market so
demand is also globalized it's easier than 50 years ago to access markets 20-30 years ago
30 years ago, all around the globe.
That's globalization.
So you can produce in one country and sell all over the world.
That's the idea here.
And what does the text say?
How does this 3D printing affect globalization?
Because we have less manual labor, we need less people to produce things, we have more
robots, we have more artificial intelligence.
cost, or the share of the labor cost in production is going down. The share of, let's say, computers
and all that kind of stuff, but that cost, the digital part of production, has become
much more expensive, but labor costs are going down. So, if you don't no longer need to produce
in a low-wage country because, as it says here, only 8 euros of an iPhone come from labor costs.
The rest comes from everything else that you have.
And if this is 8 euros or 10 euros or dollars, it doesn't matter.
So the importance of labor costs is going down.
Offshoring is going down at the same time.
That's the point there.
Okay.
if you go to the next page then so talking about the industry talking about
industrial revolutions let's look at the let's say makeup of our industry the
industrial sectors that we have in our industry and starts here with the
differentiation we usually differentiate between three sectors in the economy
which is the primary industries, the secondary industries, as you can see here, and the tertiary industries.
Let's just have a short look at what is meant by these five terms.
So primary industries, basically what they have to do is exploit raw materials.
So they make sure that we have enough raw materials.
For example, everything that is carbon fuel, like oil or gas, necessary for energy, electricity, but also lots of other things that we need for the economy.
For example, lumber. Do you know or understand the term lumber? You can also speak of timber. What's that?
right that's the wood we use we use wood as a means of production of producing anything
like for houses or whatever it could be and you call it lumber or timber
um
And quarrying, do you understand that, Turner?
What's a quarry?
A quarry is a mine where we exploit things like sand and stones and all that kind of stuff.
So, quarrying is mining for stones or sand, and if you look around, everything that's
being built is based on sand and stone.
What's the most important building material that we have?
we make mostly from sand and stones and granite and all these kind of things what's this here
what are these walls made of
concrete
so that's what we need to have concrete
Farming certainly is part of the primary industries and also the production of replenishable energies, replenishable fuels.
examples for a replenishable fuel
another word is a renewable fuel or renewable energy
so that would be something like solar, power
So everything that does not lead to any harmful environment.
And the primary industries before this first industrial revolution that we just mentioned employed the bulk of people.
Almost everybody was involved in, especially farming, because farming was not very effective at that time and so you had to employ most people in farming.
Today's biggest problem of the primary industries is what? What would you say?
if you think of the primary industries
what are their problems
what happens with carbon fuels
it's getting less and less
I think people aren't sure there is this when we say the the peak but I don't
think we're sure if we've peaked yet and if we're coming the reserves that we
have in oil and gas, for example, if they're on the decline or if they're still on the
decline. And there seems to be quite a lot of reserve in that. But what about carbon
fuels? What's the biggest question at the moment, or what's the big problem about gas
and gasoline and oil and all that kind of stuff?
Right, so the problem is carbon fuels are there to burn them, right?
Technically we speak of the combustion.
And the combustion of carbon leads to what is carbon dioxide, CO2.
And carbon dioxide is powerful for the environment and therefore we are thinking about or we need some kind of a plan to phase out.
We need to get out of carbon emissions because we see global warming.
Buzzword will be your carbon footprint when you, I don't know, go on cruises three times a year and fly from here to Australia twice a year.
All that leads to a lot of problems there.
And also in farming, for example, farming also harms the environment a lot.
A big word here, not only informing in most of the production that we have, but it especially refers to the primary industries.
How are we supposed to go on producing, for example, foodstuffs?
A puzzle word that you hear everywhere at the moment and have heard for the last ten years.
It must be sustainable. Sustainability.
So if we use too many fertilizers that destroy the pastures and the fields,
and that means in the future we can no longer run the farming industry.
How do you call farming which is very sustainable?
We speak of organic forming then.
So, that you use no fertilizers or very few fertilizers.
In the end, it means you produce in a way that is in sustainable production.
production that you can go on producing in the future and it's not harmful to people.
So these are two of the big issues, I would say, or problems at the moment in the primary
industries. The secondary industries, that's where after the first industrial revolution
most people moved to, to production in factories and then mass production of goods, is concerned
with the manufacturing and processing of the materials.
Manufacturing means you produce something,
process something means you already have a product
and make a new product out of it, a better product.
Like you use a shaft or a saddle board
and incorporate it into a machine that will be processing.
And then you make finished products out of it.
We distinguish between basically two products or two goods that we have.
One are consumer goods, I suppose that's clear, these are goods for the consumers.
And the other one are capital goods.
The German translation is Kapital Gute.
What is that?
What are capital goods?
These are goods which are bought or which are produced to manufacture other goods.
A machine, I don't know, a milling machine that one company produces is sold to another company and there it's used to produce other goods with it.
That's called a capital good.
And everything else that then goes that this milling machine might now produce whatever, a gear, and that gear probably then is also a capital good
because I, as a consumer, don't buy a lot of ears, they're then put into a car for whatever, I then buy the car.
So, capital goods are goods used to produce other goods or more goods.
Then, what also is part of the secondary industries is the so-called raw materials that are exploited
in the primary industries have to be brought to the final consumer side.
So, you, for example, once we consume some raw materials directly,
what do you consume at home in raw materials?
be your electricity water gas stuff like that that's direct consumption of raw materials so gas
water electricity for example
this is companies that do that or these things are the so-called public utilities or just utilities
If you're at home and you want to have gas, you need to house oil or water in the electricity.
Part of the secondary industries are also the construction industry, so those who use the concrete then to build houses.
And as I said, after the Industrial Revolution, most people moved into the secondary industries to work there.
Now this working together in small factories led to a lot of problems. For example, workplace safety. People get hurt at work. It leads to much more stress. You work longer hours, you couldn't work 16 hours if you worked on a field because it got dark outside.
So here you can work. The wages were very, very low at the beginning and we have the advent in the end of a laissez-faire economy, which is another word for unrestricted capitalism.
That's what came up with the industrial revolution.
Those who owned the factories could exploit these people very easily.
There were a lot of people who worked. The labor force was huge.
Everybody had six, eight, or ten children, so there were a lot of people.
And it was easy for the employers to exploit these people.
How did we react to this?
What did the workers and what did the state do in reaction?
to this unrestricted capitalism which dates back from the 19th century.
What did workers do?
That's what the state did in the end, the state made rules, what did the workers do?
Workers organized, how do we call workers organizations?
Right, so the workers organized in unions, so the worker organization that is there to
support workers to also bargain higher wages against unfair wages if the workers stick
stick together and stand up together,
then it's much easier for them to achieve
a certain level of wage.
And the second thing is the state,
past laws on the state intervened in the economy.
So for example, what do we get today?
How does our state intervene in the economy?
What does the state do?
What happens to you if you are out of work?
you get, for example,
unemployment benefits, right?
But we also have
labor laws.
So, for example,
There is a certain minimum for workplace safety,
what the employees have to do so that my workplace is safe,
that I cannot be fired in any ways.
But also, for example, one thing would be a minimum wage.
That's a protection clearly directed
against these unfair wages that the move from agriculture
before the first Industrial Revolution
to work in the factories .
OK, and the last part then would be the tertiary industries,
the so-called service sector, and the tertiary industries
or the service sector includes different services.
The first one are so-called commercial services.
And these are all the services that bring or that help
in bringing products to consumers.
So if you think, as a consumer,
if you want to buy something,
there are a lot of services necessary
so that you can buy the product.
You usually don't go to, I don't know, the next farmer,
maybe go to the next farmer and buy something there.
Most of the time you don't.
You don't go to Volkswagen to get you a new product.
There are many services involved in that.
Do you have any examples which services are necessary
so we can buy and we can consume?
You bought something on the internet? How does it get to you?
Right, the whole shipping industry, the logistics industry is necessary for that.
So these goods have to arrive at my place, but they also have to go from one company to the next company in processing, for example.
Apart from buying, if you buy on the internet, especially on the internet, what else do you need?
The goods need to be sent to you. What does the seller expect?
When does the seller send out the goods?
What do you have to do for that? You have to pay, right?
And how does that work to you? I don't know. Go to Amazon to bring them the money? No, you don't.
So we need financial services, for example. If we don't have that, the economy doesn't work.
Banking. Today we have a lot of these new financial services. So we no longer need a classic bank.
You can use Paypal or whatever it is, which is not a classic bank of that sense.
Things like insurance. No goods will be transported without being insured,
because the manufacturers will lose a huge amount of money.
then i already put some here retailers what's a retailer
a retailer is the shop where you buy be it online or be on ice cream so retailers are shops
in German there is another term
which is Einzelhandel
plus
you would have
in the
classic chain of distribution
you also have
wholesalers
what's a wholesaler then?
Imagine a retailer is a shop where I go to buy. What's a wholesaler?
Maybe where the retailers get their stuff.
Right, where the retailer goes to buy stuff.
So wholesalers are usually the producer makes stuff, then the wholesaler buys it in huge numbers,
And then the wholesaler goes on selling it to smaller shops.
That's the idea.
In German they call it Handel.
So companies that buy in large numbers to then sell it to retailers.
And we have non-commercial services,
which are all the services that have nothing to do
or little to do with production.
They merely make a service.
Do you have, would you have any ideas
who is only in service
and doesn't have anything to do with production?
that's for example tourism
tourism doesn't produce anything
or if you go
the whole entertainment industry
if you go to the movies
and if you go to
a public swimming pool, theme park, all that kind of stuff, that's merely a service.
But also something closer to you, if you go to a hairdresser for example, that's merely a service, there's no production involved.
So primary, secondary, tertiary production.
And finally, we have public services, which are services which are rendered by the state.
To render is, in the end, you produce a good and you render a service. That's the word there.
Why does the state, for example, provide education and, in our case, in the country also health insurance?
What's the reason behind that? Why is education to 95% or whatever? This is a public university.
Most of you will have gone to public schools. Why is that provided by the state?
If you have health insurance, chances are, I think, over 90% of people or almost 95% of people have public health insurance.
Because in the future the state would benefit from it?
Wouldn't you also, you know, the unis could also be private, right? The schools could be private.
Because the people couldn't pay for it.
They can what?
They couldn't pay for it, they're not able to pay for it.
Exactly. And that's the problem. The private field does not always work. There are some industries where free private markets do not work.
For example, in education. If you say, I'm hungry, I want to get something to eat. The next bakery there makes an offer.
And I think, no, that's too expensive.
I don't want to spend five euros for a loaf of bread.
Then I eat nothing.
That's my free decision.
Right.
Then I go somewhere else or I just don't eat anything today.
That's not so difficult.
Education.
If your parents cannot afford basic education for you because they have little money,
then your life is very problematic if you don't even learn to read and to write.
So we need a certain form of basic education that must be rendered by the state, because otherwise we have almost no chances in life.
Same thing with health insurance. It's very difficult to make health insurance a private sector, because if I cannot afford health insurance, that's not something I can freely sign up.
If I need to have surgery and operation, I cannot say, okay, that's too expensive for me, I don't want to have it. If I need a new heart, then I need a new heart, otherwise I'm dying. So I'm not free in making that decision.
So this is why the state has to offer some services because the reason is it doesn't work in a free market
or private markets don't always work.
If this one part has too much power, as I said,
the doctor who can say,
Yes, I can operate you, but when I have 100,000 euros, then I cannot really say, no, I'm not taking that. I'll go somewhere else. That's just too many times. That wouldn't be a paper.
Okay, so, to go on your list, I have a little film for you, which talks about these industrial revolutions.
I would just ask you to watch it. They talk about, today we have a lot of talk about the fourth industrial revolution.
So not only factory, mass production, and customization,
but also certainly artificial intelligence,
all the digitalization that we have.
I would just ask you, as I said, to have a look at it.
And then I will ask the one or two questions about it.
So I might just lean back and watch it.
So apparently we are due for a fourth...
Sorry for the accent, can you tell where he's from?
A lot of economists are very excited and maybe a little bit anxious, both for very good reasons.
The first industrial revolution, you know the one that we all think is the only industrial
revolution was responsible for giving us production. This production went on to define our way
of life in the modern world where people in advanced economies have access to practically
unlimited food, robust housing and bits and bobs to fulfil every little desire that they
have. The world before this was very stagnant. The idea that we have economic growth at all,
where society is always advancing and every generation is richer than the one that came
before it, is a surprisingly modern ideology. What's more is that it's not something
that we are guaranteed. We can only get so good at making stuff given our current set
of technologies and resources, and in fact, we might already be starting to see this plateau.
Arguably, the rollout of smartphones that gave us unlimited access to information wherever
we were was the last great paradigm shift in the way that we lived our lives. 13 years
later, this technology is improving, but it doesn't offer anything fundamentally different
to the way that we live our lives, run our economies, or advance our standard of living.
But maybe we're getting ahead of ourselves.
To really know what to expect from this supposedly incipient fourth revolution,
we must first understand a few key things.
How do economists define an industrial revolution?
What is a revolution and what is just some cool new technology?
What were those other two industrial revolutions?
What is going to be the fourth industrial revolution?
And will this all make our modern economies look like the land before steam engines?
this episode of economics explained was made possible by our fans on patreon if you would
like to gain early access to these videos before they're uploaded to youtube as well as participate
in exclusive q and a said that there was only one industrial revolution and everything in our
modern economy is ultimately just a continuation of technological advances that were making
production easier you know the type of economists that will insist on listening to the beatles on
their 12-inch record player for what it's worth historians kind of agree with them and the
Industrial Revolution is just a blanket term given to the time between the mid-1700s and the late 1800s in Europe.
But there is a more flexible definition that makes an Industrial Revolution more of a process rather than an event in history.
This definition classes an Industrial Revolution as a systematic shift in technology
that changes and improves the way that business is done while creating new businesses across all industries in the economy.
A bit of a mouthful, but let's apply it to the first industrial revolution.
The adoption of steam power and mechanized production was a systematic shift in technology
from the hand tools that were used before this.
It certainly improved the way that business was done, and it even drove massive shifts
in the way that society was structured.
And it did this all while creating new businesses and jobs all across the economy and in all
industries.
And I actually want to focus on that last point, because it is very important.
All industries is the differentiating factor between an industrial revolution and just a cool new piece of technology.
YouTube, for example, has improved businesses while making all new ones.
If I told someone I was a YouTuber 16 years ago, they would probably ship me off to the asylum.
If I tell someone the same thing today, they say they don't care.
But at least they know what I'm talking about.
But of course, YouTube did not drive an industrial revolution because, while it has fundamentally
changed the way that media is consumed, it hasn't really changed the way that we farm
food or produce cars or lend money.
So that kind of begs the question then, what were those other revolutions?
You may not know this, but the first industrial revolution kind of ran out of puff at the
end of the 1800s.
New inventions were few and far between, and for the most part, society had fallen into
status quo where they could produce textiles and bricks en masse. This was still a huge achievement
but the machines making all this possible were still very hard to produce and limited in their
functionality. You would be hard-pressed to tell the difference in quality of light between 1801
and 1851, which historically is an insignificant amount of time, but imagine if the world today
did not grow wealthier over a 50-year period. People would lose their minds. Fortunately for
the progress of humanity this started to pick back up again in the 70s the 1870s the period
from here until the early 20th century was punctuated by a few key creations most notably
standardization the besame process and the telegram standardization was a surprisingly big
deal before this all machines working in the world were custom contraptions specific to one factory
textile mill or farm. These custom machines were obviously extremely
expensive and made even more so by the fact that any repair required the direct
attention of a blacksmith to make a new custom part from scratch. Imagine if you
needed to get new brake pads for your car but the mechanic had to cast the
steel from scratch to match the specific size of your axle bolts and tires. Think
of what the parts and labor on that invoice would be. Then think of how many
people would stop driving if it got that expensive and then think of how much
poorer of the world would be without our most heavily utilised form of transport.
Using a set standard for nuts and bolts and screws basically did to machines what the
printing press did to books. The number of machines out there working in the economy
skyrocketed and the repairs were made far cheaper and easier by parts that fit any machine out there
with the same specifications. The next component of the second revolution was the Bessemer process
which allowed for the easy production of steel a common misconception is that it actually made
steel production possible which isn't entirely correct steel had been produced for hundreds of
years before that but it was a very tedious process and it was only really used for things
where performance was vital like guns and swords and that was pretty much it steel back then was
kind of like titanium today very expensive very useful but used very sparingly but this
Bessemer process which was basically blowing a big old pot of iron and carbon soup made steel
production easy and cheap. So cheap that even big old ships and skyscrapers could be made out of the
stuff which was fantastic because iron is way worse than steel. I did one single course in
material science at university and real engineering has subscribed to this channel so I'm obviously
qualified to talk about this stuff but if you tried to build a car out of iron it would end
weighing eight tons, sagging in the middle and snapping like toffee if you close the door too hard.
The modern world is built on steel and we were sure to tell everyone about it with our whiz-bang
new telegrams. We take instant communication for granted today but the ability to send information
from one side of a country to the other in less than a week changed the world in more ways than
I could possibly list. Needless to say these three innovations gave rise to a new wave of growth in
and around the world and ushered in the united states as the world's largest economy beating
out china which was still larger than the united kingdom despite their technological advantage
this was the first time in history that industry decided who was the top dog now this revolution
is in many ways still driving growth to this very day we continue to build larger ships operate
larger and more efficient machinery and drive cars made possible by steel and standardization
that is to say that there was not the same lull between the third and second industrial revolution
like there was between the first and the second unless you count the great depression which you
shouldn't because that was a whole other thing rather the advent of computers and digitized
data storage further accelerated the growth that was made possible by the second industrial
revolution this is equally as easy to see there are very few jobs in the world today that don't
require some kind of interaction with a computer and even in their most rudimentary form they were
game changing the way that we could work with large pools of information even if you forgot
about the internet because don't worry we'll get to that just think about your own job i'm
confident a good portion of you watching would not know how anything got done before a pc was standard
issue on a work desk computers today are almost inseparable from the way that we live and work
they have made us as individuals far more productive and also far less productive all at the same time.
But we are again starting to fall into a situation where their usefulness is not providing much more utility year on year.
Most white-collar workers in the world today use Excel, PowerPoint, a web browser,
and if they are really technical, maybe some kind of programming suite or media editing software.
The thing with all of these applications is the first few would work pretty much the same on a ten-year-old computer
and even those last two tasks are still possible on such a machine.
For what it's worth, I actually edit these videos on a computer that's now seven years old.
But please like and subscribe so Mr. Economics Man can maybe get myself one of them new 3090s.
But either way, if we want to continue to grow forever,
we are going to need technologies that radically change the way that we do things
rather than slightly improve them year on year.
And fortunately, that might just be what we're going to get with the Fourth Industrial Revolution.
revolution. There are developments on the horizon that will work to accelerate the
progress of society just as much as anything else that we have spoken about
thus far, with the big caveat that we have to make them a reality first. We can
envision something like a time machine and even speculate about such a machine's
potential applications, but we don't have any practical way of making one so we
aren't exactly working those into our models for future growth just yet. A
A little bit closer to reality is the creation of artificial intelligence, with a robust level of general intelligence.
This is still something that we have yet to actually create, but we are getting closer and closer year on year.
Artificial intelligence could do to computers what steel manufacturing did to iron,
take a technology that helped economies for a long, long time, and make it radically better and easier to work with.
And that's a pretty common theme amongst all of the other developments that economists are lumping into this fourth industrial revolution.
This includes everything from global internet access, advanced 3D printing, quantum computing, blockchain technology, all the way up to things like human implants.
To an outside observer, these may just look like a logical progression from the suite of technologies that we have available to us today.
But they are not.
They all have the ability to radically change the world that we live in across all industries.
However, this confusion is actually part of the reason
why some economists have advocated for comping the revolution into subcategories.
The Industrial Revolutions I and II with parts A and B.
Industrial Revolution I, Part A, gave the world mechanisation.
Then there was a bit of a lull before Part B came along
and made those initial advances a whole lot better in almost every way possible.
Industrial Revolution II, Part A, gave the world computers.
Then there was a bit of a lull before Part B came along
and made those initial advances a whole lot better in almost every way possible.
While this categorisation probably makes a little bit more sense,
it doesn't really attract as much attention as giving them each their own special number,
so make of that what you will.
But if there is a takeaway from all of this,
it's that amongst all the doom and gloom in the world at the moment,
most economists are still optimistic that we will continue to grow wealthier
and more prosperous into the future.
Hi guys, I hope you enjoyed the latest video.
If you did please consider liking and subscribing this video is made possible by our patrons over on patreon
So if you enjoy this video, please consider supporting the channel like these awesome
But he just gave another idea, so basically what he's saying is there were two industrial revolutions,
this first one is then the second one at the end of the 20th century with computers.
I just wanted to mention two or three other things in which he came up with here.
He said, apart from this mass production that we had at the beginning of the 20th century,
What else revolutionized the industry at the end of the 19th century, beginning of the 20th century, which was really important for our economy?
He said that standardization was one of the most important issues in industry, in the
Why is that? What did standardization lead to?
Or what is meant by standardization? Let's put it that way first.
It's actually a simple thing. We have standards for things.
Take a very simple example. If you buy a screw or a bolt, what type of screw or bolt can you buy?
They have standard sizes. They go from M1 to M64. That's it.
they don't and that is millimeters and then you don't buy an M I know 2.5
millimeter screw and also the for example the pitch you say the thread how
the thread is done is standardized so you can be sure if you buy a screw of
the correct size you can use it for the parts you want to join together before
that you didn't know that so before that you had to go to the next blacksmith and
say can you please make some screws for me because I need to have them
especially at I don't know 2.5 millimeters and they have to have a thread pitch of 48 degrees and not 60 degrees which is the normal standard of a screw so that's the thing and then you could produce in big numbers because
everybody was using the same parts the parts became much cheaper you didn't have to start
that was in the end the beginning of this supply industry you buy supplies from a supplier and
everybody uses the same measurements that's the beginning of that and you also had cheap
spare parts if something broke in my car today i can get the part which has the same size
The shaft, or if your brake cylinder breaks, you can get a new brake cylinder which has the same size as the other one.
And that's a huge jump forward.
The other thing he mentioned was, I don't expect you to remember the term there, the Bessemer process,
which was a huge improvement in the production of steel.
And our classic economy depends on steel.
Steel houses, steel bridges, infrastructure, cars, planes,
everything is, at least to a certain extent, steel.
What is steel?
you guys ask mechanics or mechanical engineers, what is steel?
What is inside of steel?
He said in the film, pure iron wouldn't have been able to produce so much.
If you wanted to build a car made from iron, it has 15 tons of it.
so what's the difference between steel and iron? steel has iron and carbon. steel is an iron plus carbon and many many times another metal
Steel can exist only as a mixture of iron and carbon, but most of the time steel includes another metal.
Chromium, magnesium, vanadium, tungsten, candy, anything.
Mixes of steel are called what?
Not mixes of steel, sorry, mixes of metals.
If you mix metals together, you get a name for that.
It's alloy.
Right, that's an alloy.
So it's an iron, carbon, other metal, alloy.
and that enabled us to produce so many things that we needed and now we kind of
like also we could say we're getting out of this carbon era when we use carbon
fuels. We use a different type of fuel now. We use electricity. Before the
Industrial Revolution, what did we use as power? Mostly horses and animals. So
natural power, then carbon. Power, everything was carbon powered. And now there's a
shift in that. And also a shift away in the end into a certain extent in steel.
Infrastructure, in the sense that you can drive everywhere, gets less and less
important or not less and less important but step by step is getting less
important we are staying or it's easier for us to stay at home we can
communicate we don't have to go to places all the time to communicate with
people. Amateur manufacturing would mean again less logistics necessary less
transportation necessary so there is also a move away from steel the steel
area is all steel is also losing importance in the longer run you can see
that on the horizon hasn't arrived yet.
That's the other thing that changed the whole thing.
And last question here.
What does he say, or what's generally, what is an industrial
revolution?
when does he say
actually everybody more or less
agrees in that
when did he speak of a revolution
industrial revolution
or an economic revolution
So, what he says, it's a basic shift in the economy, but that is in all economic or industrial sectors.
And so this is why I was saying, for example, not necessarily that the additive manufacturing
coming up, that this necessarily would be an industrial revolution, because it only
has, at least that's what he's saying, an influence on manufacturing.
That's why it really changes, the other fields are really changed so much better.
A. I don't expect you to remember that
and B. I don't think it's so important
just have a basic understanding of what we're talking about
let's just skip this one page here
we'll do that next time
there is a little exercise
at the very end
for you to see two pages down if you remember any of the words so you're supposed to use the
words which are in there and put them in the in the gaps in the text
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Okay, so let's have a look.
First stage of priming industry with exploit, do you want to start?
Just by extraction, they are so-called replenishable or renewable.
Right.
If these raw materials are not exhausted by extraction,
they are also replenishable or renewable.
So we're angioforming in the secondary or what else would we call that?
Manufacturing.
in the manufacturing of these materials
have been used to produce material goods, capital goods,
and secondary materials, provision of gas, water,
electricity, .
of the end of the program of utilities.
Bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah.
Consumers, by traders, importers, exporters.
That's what it's really about.
And then we'll go to the wholesalers.
Right, we talked about wholesalers,
and the next one will be...
next gap
traders who have sold to the final consumer
retail
they make consumption possible
for example banking
payment transactions
payment transactions
And finally, this change should be...
I'm an industrialist.
Industrialist?
What did you say?
Sorry, I thought from German.
Ah, okay.
Okay.
So then,
thank you very much for your attention.
Have a nice afternoon.
Enjoy the weekend.
We're going to leave it in this area.
